The 5 Best Things I Ever Did with my Savings AccountsSaving money in a savings account is one of the best long-term financial goals you should strive for. But how do you do it? What do you need to know? Here's my experience with savings accounts—everything from high interest accounts, to savings apps, to retirement accounts, and long-term investment accounts.Saving money is never easy, but it’s not impossible. Even if you’re self-employed or run your own business, there are a few things that make saving easier.Obviously, savings accounts are the #1 way to make sure you’re saving money—but how do you make the savings account work for you? Growing up as a young professional, I didn’t always think of my savings accounts as a useful tool.But now that I’m living in an expensive city, living a relatively expensive lifestyle, I’ve had to find creative ways to save on my day-to-day expenses, plus figure out which savings accounts will work for me today.Savings accounts come in so many shapes and sizes and I won’t lie: the financial world still confuses me immensely. But after lots of research, trial and error, and some lucky investments, I’ve managed to put together a small savings for my most immediate needs and for the future.Whether it’s a high-interest savings account, one of these new savings apps, an investment account, or a retirement savings account, I’ve used them all. Check out my tips for opening and using savings account below.1. Start saving earlyFrom an early age, my parents taught me a lot about personal finance and managing money. I remember going to the bank semi-regularly with my dad, depositing my own checks into my own account.That financial know-how definitely had an impact on how I’ve dealt with money ever since. I’ve had Bank of America checking and savings accounts for as long as I can remember!Today, for me, saving money isn’t always as easy. It’s the economy, yeah, but also I just like to spend money, too. But because I’ve got the savings account already (and have had it for essentially forever), I’m more inclined to add savings when I can.That habit of saving money early has certainly helped me to adhere to a general savings plan when I can!2. Open an investment accountI did this when I was relatively young, too. Again, it was my parents who taught me the value of saving money. In addition to convincing me that it was important to put some of my paycheck away each money into savings, I also opened an investment account with Fidelity brokerage.I remember buying my first mutual fund stocks through Fidelity. It was exciting and exhilarating to watch my minuscule investment change prices daily.I didn’t take full advantage of my investment account, though, until just out of college when, with a well-paid full-time job, I was able to actually make an investment of more than $100. I started learning a little bit about the stock market, and eventually managed to buy a few shares of a high value stock.As I was planning to quit my job and spend my last of my savings account (at about $20,000), I invested about $1,000 of that into stocks and a mutual fund. That amount (whatever it would grow to after sitting there for a year) would serve as my only cash after my trip.3. Forget about your savings accountHaving a savings account is a great first step to both long-term and short-term savings. But a savings account is only as good as what you’re able to keep in it!It can be hard to keep money in a savings account when there’s a life to live—and one that costs money. I’m definitely a believer in spending money to enjoy life, but it helps to remember to save a bit when you can, too.A rainy day savings fund is important for those occasional emergencies, but I also just like to save for the sake of saving. It gives me peace of mind in case I decide to quit my job to travel again, or to splurge on a new camera…Here’s how I do it, though: I actually have two savings account. One is just my regular savings through Bank of America where I’m generally able to keep about a month’s rent. I use that savings money as an emergency account to pay my credit card bills when I go over my monthly budget, or to splurge on gifts and trips if I’m able to save a bit more.But I also have a second savings account: one that I opened up as a teenager through a credit union. The thing is: I can never really remember my login info to access the account. I’ve forgotten the complicated password and don’t have any way to really access it unless I make an effort.That extra hurdle to access the account means that I actually rarely ever take money out of the savings. It’s not much money because I’ve withdrawn from it in the past to pay some hefty bills, but the fact that it still exists and gains interest is a welcome peace of mind. It’s there if I need it for an emergency; but in the meantime, I really don’t think of it and so therefore can’t really spend it!4. Save for retirementAs a self-employed freelancer, saving for retirement is one of the biggest financial challenges I face every work year. I can generally estimate my basic income each month, but a lot of my work is seasonal as well, and you just never know for sure how much you’ll make in one month versus another.That makes saving for retirement that much more difficult. But, I recently opened a Roth-IRA account through my same Fidelity investment account so I could start planning for the future properly. As a self-employed person, that seemed like the easiest and best route to go.A second type of retirement account that makes the most sense for self-employed businesses is a SEP-IRA account. I opened an account in seconds through the Acorns app, part of their Acorns Later account.The Acorns Later app (get $5 when you sign up here!) explains in details the differences between different types of retirement options and makes recommendations based on a short questionnaire. It was simple to set up the retirement account and will provide me some much-needed tax benefits as my own self-employed business.5. Spend your savingsMaybe not a surprise, but I actually love spending money—just not on everything. I’m pretty particular with my spending. For one thing (and this one should be obvious): I love to travel. So most of my extra money almost always goes to future travels or experiences.I honestly believe it’s important to spend your money on life experiences, which in turn, provide their own special value.I’ve completely depleted my savings accounts once in my life—to take my big trip around the world. It was the most expensive decision of my life, but also provided me with something really special and more than enough stories and insight and ideas to last a lifetime.What’s the point of saving money if you don’t plan to spend it?10 ways to be a better environmentalist at home & abroadEco-friendly, sustainable travel is easier than you think. Use these eco-friendly tips to be a better environmentalist at home and abroad when traveling. It's important.A few weeks ago, during the global climate strike on September 20, I just happened to be in Berlin for several meetings. While I was making my way through the city, I crossed paths with hundreds of climate strikers. The city seemed alive with activists. People carrying signs both funny and serious. People marching through the streets.It was all so visible, in-your-face, but it was also digital. The crowds and all the conversation around it immediately made me aware of the urgency of the situation.As a travel writer, and one that frequently takes long-distance trips, I am acutely aware of my own personal impact on the world and our climate. Don’t get me wrong: there’s a lot to love about travel, but we have to be more aware of how it’s affecting our global world today and in the future.Reports from the September 20th Global Climate Strike claim nearly 4 million people participated, arguably the largest in our history. We need to spend more time focused on discussing our impact on the world, and below I’ve shared some of the ways I’ve tried to live a more sustainable life—and things you can do as well to stay eco-friendly and eco-conscious when traveling.ECO-FRIENDLY TRAVEL TIPS10 THINGS YOU CAN DO NOWVote for progressive candidatesListen, we can talk about plastic straws and eating meat all we want (don’t worry, we’re going to get there later in this list), but Elizabeth Warren made a strong case on why we really need to make much bigger changes—at the government level.That’s why voting for progressive candidates—those that support a Green New Deal and other policies designed to disrupt the status quo—are going to make the biggest impact on our environment. There are lots of individual purchase habits we can do as individuals, but it’s up to our governments to institute changes to change up the way the world works.Use public transportPublic transportation is incredibly useful and unfortunately—underrated. Whether you’re traveling or not, using public transport options like the bus or subway are going to have an impact. Moving people between places is never easy, and taxis just take up too much space and waste too many resources.Take fewer flightsAs a travel advocate, you’re not going to see me saying we should stop traveling. But we do need to be more responsible with how and where we travel. There are plenty of times where flights are not necessary for getting from point A to point B. Those are the instances where we should opt to take trains over planes.Again: our individual actions and purchase decisions on whether we travel by plane or train are important. But something that’s perhaps more important is electing politicians who actively support high speed rail infrastructure so that we can collectively change our environmental impact at a societal level.Use reusable water bottlesFor as long as I can remember, I’ve really hated bottled water. Sure, in some parts of the world (and parts of the USA, too), it’s necessary because public water supplies aren’t safe, but too many people have become too reliant on bottled water.That’s why I travel with a reusable water bottle. I use it every day at home, and as often as I can when traveling. EVERY day at home! There are portable water filters you can buy which are useful when hiking or traveling in far-off places, but honestly: I just try to be responsible with my plastic use—and that means using less plastic.Eat less meatBack in 2009 when I first started this travel blog, in anticipation for my own big trip around the world which I knew would require lots of international flights, I actually went vegetarian for the six months before leaving on my travels.A lot has been written about the environmental impact of meat production, and from what I know and have experienced, I am determined to both eat less meat, and also eat more sustainably. That means locally grown foods. The vast network of transporting food has a serious impact, so if I can minimize my own personal impact, I’m happy.This is also important when considering what seafood to eat. The Seafood Watch app (and website) can help you make ocean-friendly choices when eating seafood.Recycle what you canFrom my many years living in Europe, if there was just one habit that I can say had an affect on me, it was the habit of recycling. Germans recycle everything and it’s just the way it’s done, so it’s easy to do. Admittedly, it’s a bit more challenging in the USA, but it’s still very important.Separating plastics and paper might seem tedious, but it’s only going to become more essential in the future.Recycling can be taken a step further, too. Simply don’t throw away things that are broken; have them fixed (or fix them yourself)! We waste so much.Right to repair laws are essential and should be supported in your local and regional governments. The more we can recycle, the better off we’ll all be: both environmentally and financially!Skip plastic bagsThere was a lot of culture shock upon moving back to the United States, but the biggest was the use of plastic bags used in America. At the grocery store, meat and veggies are regularly put in their own individual plastic bag, and then that’s put in another plastic bag which is double bagged to support the weight. It’s ridiculous.These days, I’ve always got an extra tote bag with me—plus my usual day bag. It’s a useful thing to travel with as well, because you just never know what little knick-knacks you might find as souvenirs. Bring your own bag and skip the plastic.Use reusable strawsWhen and if you can, you can also skip plastic straws by bringing your own. I see it all the time in so many hipster coffee shops & caf?s today, thanks to some very public messages of support to stop single-use plastic use.Shop lessI already mentioned this above, but if and when it’s possible to repair something you own, it’s so much better for the environment to simply repair what’s broken. We throw out a lot of things we don’t want or need anymore, when they can really just be up-cycled.If we simply bought less of what we don’t need, and focused on creating solid and sustainable products for personal use, we’d be better off in the long run.Be aware & learn what you canThere are so many other things we can do be better environmentalists, so many eco-friendly products we can and should use whether we’re at home or traveling. Being eco-conscious isn’t difficult. There’s a lot of information out there, but as soon as you decide to commit to a more environmentally-friendly life, that awareness itself will start to have an effect.When you commit to a cause (whichever cause), you’re not expected to do everything at every time. That’s nearly impossible. Advocacy requires knowledge and awareness, and a responsibility to make those changes when possible.Summer Packing Tips: What to Bring on your Summer GetawayDon't forget these summertime essentials for your weekend getaways! Whether it's a 4th of July beach trip, a road trip, or just a weekend escape from the city, bring these things with you to make sure your summer travels are easy & enjoyable!Summertime is often the best time of year to travel. We’ve all got more time, more energy, and the weather just can’t be beat! Summer Fridays from work make it easy to take those quick weekend getaways, whether it’s a road trip to the beach, or just somewhere out of the city.With all the sweat and sun, filling up your carry-on bag for a summer weekend getaway is never easy. Carry-on liquid limits (100ml ugh) are frustrating for those of us with sunscreen needs, but there are plenty of things still worth packing for your summer trips.5 THINGS TO PACK FOR SUMMER TRAVELSunglassesYep, sunglasses are the first thing you need for summer travel. They’re also the thing I break the most so I always have a few pairs in my bag. I’ve started keeping a sunglasses carry-case with me as well because it protects the frames.Where to buy: I’ve got a pretty wide-ranging collection of sunglasses, from ones I’ve gotten free at various pride events, to cheap ones I’ve picked up at pharmacies and convenience stores. Recently, I was gifted a pair of designer sunglasses from SmartBuyGlasses.com. Personally, I love a simple frame from a brand like Ralph Lauren or Ray Ban.FragrancesSummertime usually means heat, and with the hot temperatures (and the increasing amount of heat waves), that’s going to mean sweat. Having a good deodorant is helpful, but it’s also smart to pack a fresh fragrance or cologne for your summer trips.A quick spritz before heading out for the evening is an easy way to mask your smell, or accentuate an outfit easily.Where to buy: I’ve got so many fragrances at this point, I really love to mix it up. The new gender-neutral brand of fragrances from KIERIN NYC are especially delightful as their series includes scents that can be used for a variety of purposes.For Pride Month, Kenneth Cole also released a series of men’s fragrances which can also be adapted depending upon personal taste (or smell). I also really love the Versace Eros scent.MoisturizersYes, always pack sunscreen. But don’t forget the moisturizer also! The summer sun (and heat) can be especially difficult on sensitive skin. Just like it’s important to stay hydrated with water out in the heat, it’s important to make sure your skin stays hydrated as well.Where to buy: I’ve been using a few different moisturizers. And I always keep an extra one in my carry-on bag so I make sure to never forget it when traveling! Last month, beauty brand Kiehl’s launched an Age Defender Gel Moisturizer—a lightweight, firming, lifting and anti-wrinkle treatment for men. It’s really comfortable to use.I’ve also been using a purifying face cream Good Science Beauty which feels especially refreshing on the skin. It uses Good Silicon+ technology which makes sure the ingredients get where they need to be.PostcardsWhat’s a travel blog if you don’t have a way to share it?! Anyone who follows my story knows that I love a good postcard, and sending them is such a fun and easy way to connect with those that you love. (Or I guess you could probably also send them to those that you don’t love.)Where to buy: Even though we live in an increasingly paperless world, postcards are still available just about everywhere. Luxury hotels tend to leave them in their rooms for guests to use at their will, sometimes restaurants even keep them available, or you’ll find postcard ads in the back of bars and on sticky countertops.But if you don’t feel like hunting one down and you want to use your own photos to send a real-world piece of mail, the MyPostcard.com app is easy and cheap. You can send postcards for as little as $1.99 to anywhere in the world!Good shoesTraveling for the summer is all about packing light, but you’ve still got to make sure you’ve got some summer style! Whether you’re marching in a pride parade or hanging out at the beach, a good pair of shoes is going to make or break the trip.I don’t buy shoes as often as I probably should, but I always make sure I’ve got a classy pair of dress shoes, a top-quality pair of flip-flops (for the beach only), and a few pairs of cool sneakers in my closet.Where to buy: I’m a sucker for all the typical sneaker brands like Adidas, Converse, and VANS, but ever since I discovered Italian shoemaker Guidomaggi, I’ve always had a pair of shoes from them in my packed bag. Handmade in Italy, they’re all luxury height-increasing shoes anywhere from 2? inches to 6? platforms. I love the way the shoes make me feel with the added height and the Italian style just really pumps it up. I’ve got a pair of their sneakers I always love wearing out to the clubs.Packing for a summer trip isn’t always easy, but I always bring with me these essentials. What else do you make sure to carry with you