Travel planning. It drives me crazy, and I mean that in both that passionate, can’t-get-enough-of-it kind of way as well as that miserable, can’t-stop-crying-tears-of-frustration kind of way. Lately, I’ve received an uptick in requests to learn a bit more about my travel planning process. It dawned on me that often, my trip coverage only starts with a new stamp in my passport, which glazes over a lot of time, effort and energy spent to get to that point.Still, general travel planning is a hard topic to cover. After all, every trip is so unique and different, how could I explain “travel planning” in a way that would encompass everything from a local weekend road trip to a multi-month international adventure? Sure, over the years I’ve written plenty of planning posts, and do have a basic overview of some of the tools I use, but I’ve yet to create a really comprehensive roundup of all the resources, tips and tricks I use to take my trips from an idle daydream to an arrival at my destination. This new series is an attempt to share what I’ve found along the way — and as always, I look forward to learning even more from you all in the comments!Pick a DestinationThis is, of course, the first step to any trip — daydreaming and deciding. Because I work online and have no home base, I tend to travel in lengthy, comprehensive multi-destination bursts. I like to do one or two of these big trips per year, interspersed with time in the USA taking shorter domestic trips. It sounds simple but I get the “how do you decide where to go?” question from readers pretty often, and I think the answer actually is a lot more nuanced than “where I want to!,” which might seem like the most obvious reply.Lately, I’ve been planning a lot of trips around attending festivals, conferences, weddings, and other events. Last summer, I built a trip to Europe around going to the Tomorrowland festival. Last fall, I built a trip to Central America around attending Equilibrio and Batabano. This summer, I built a trip to the American Southwest around returning to Burning Man. Right now, I’m back in Southeast Asia, and I timed my arrival to ensure I’d be here for TBEX. These events, which have a set date and location, become anchors around which the rest of my trips grow.Then, I start to expand around those anchors. Often, the next leap is to what family and friends I have in that region. For last summer’s Europe trip, I started with the festival in Belgium and slowly added on visits to friends living in England and Malta, eventually rounding things out with a frivolous jaunt to Greece as well, just because it was tugging on my heartstrings. This summer, I made sure that my time in Burning Man was followed by two weeks in California, where my dad has recently moved — and yes, eventually I’d tack on a week in Las Vegas and a little road trip around Arizona too, just for kicks.So while there are exceptions, my trips tend to revolve primarily around visiting loved ones and attending events, rather than just spinning the globe and booking a ticket to a place I’ve always wanted to go. Sure, I could do that, and I have — dragging my mom and sister to Iceland was based on nothing more than a whim — but in general I suppose when you have the entire world at your fingertips and all things are possible, it is nice to have some structure in your decision making. When I see a friend has moved to a new city or a festival is taking place in a country I’ve always wanted to travel to, I just feel like it’s my time to go.I know for some of you guys, picking which destination on your never-ending bucket list to tackle next is hardly an issue. But for others, especially those just getting into travel or just branching out into traveling solo, wondering where to go can be overwhelming. And so I suggest this — have a favorite musician? Look up one of their international tour dates, and make a week in Amsterdam out of it! Always wanted to learn glass blowing? Go do a road trip to Upstate New York! Love running? Sign up for a 10K somewhere in the Caribbean. Have two crazy aunts in Tampa? Time for a few weeks in South Florida! Look to your hobbies and your interests and the wonderful people in your life, and let those things guide you.When it comes to visiting friends and family, don’t underestimate who might be willing to take you in. My trip to Hawaii in 2012 was built entirely around visiting two friends who’d recently moved to Oahu, an aunt and uncle I don’t think I’d ever spent alone time with previously on Maui, an elderly couple who were very dear friends of my parents on Big Island, and a fellow blogger I’d never met before on Kauai. I knew I’d have a fantastic time with my friends on Oahu, but the other three were a little risky — and they paid off big time. Angie on Kauai is now a dear friend I’ve traveled with around the world, I never felt closer to my aunt and uncle on Maui, and I cherish the time I spent with our family friends on Big Island before they died (getting to hear hilarious stories about my parents was a bonus!) The more you travel, the more people you’ll meet to go visit somewhere exiting.Still really have no idea where to go? KAYAK, my go-to booking engine, has a new Explore feature that allows you to enter your departure city and the month you want to travel, and then be treated to an interactive map of all the destinations you could reach, and how much it would cost to get there. You can then sort by flight length, price, and even temperature and activities. Now that’s some seriously high-tech daydreaming.Picking a DestinationHere are a few more factors I take into account when deciding on a destination:Weather: I prefer to travel in shoulder season, when finding accommodation is less competitive yet there’s still a lively travel scene and plenty of good weather days. I find this information from general Googling around as well as from my go-to guidebooks, Lonely Planet (their website, tragically, is a mess). For Southeast Asia specifically, Travelfish has fantastic weather maps.Holidays: It’s good to get a general idea of when the major holidays in your destination are — both so you can avoid them (Easter in the Philippines, I’m looking at you and your fully booked ferries and your no vacancy signs) and so you can plan your trips to attend them (Songkran in Thailand, I love you something fierce)! Again, Lonely Planet guidebooks have calendar sections that give a good overview.Safety: My Central America trip brought up more questions about safety than I’ve ever fielded before. It forced me to confess that this is something I never really research or factor into my destination decision-making — sorry mom. I’m not trying to be flip, and I’m certainly not running out right now to go sightseeing in Syria, but overall I trust that the good judgement and intuition that keeps me safe at home will keep me as safe as I have control over on the road as well. And frankly, the rest is luck.After all, I’m not exactly blazing new trails here, and I even the less-visited countries I’ve traveled to solo, like Honduras or the Philippines, have hosted millions of backpackers drama-free before me. That said, I do browse my guidebook’s safety and scams section to have an idea of what to look out for and if you want to read some super alarmist official safety info before you go, the USA’s Department of State country warnings are here.Length of Trip: Usually I have a set amount of time and am trying to decide what to do with it (for example, when I have x number of months between being home for Christmas and being at my baby sister’s graduation), and this is the biggest factor in choosing a destination. With only a long weekend at my disposal I’m personally going to chose an easy local getaway over an arduous international journey. With several months before my next obligation, I’ll likely tackle a big backpacking trip.If I have some flexibility and I’m trying to decide how long to go for, I’d say it’s rare for me to regret having too much time at your destination. Yet if you’re flying far don’t forget to factor in time for jetlag and travel fatigue on both ends, and give yourself some breathing room before you have to head back to work or school or other responsibilities.Budget: The cost of a destination definitely factors into my decision to go somewhere or not — part of the reason I’ve yet to make it to Australia is I’m afraid of their dollar! But keep in mind that you can shoestring your way through Iceland and you can splurge your way through Laos. Basically, there’s a huge range of what travelers spend in any destination, and you can put yourself at either end of it. I’ll go more into on-the-road budgeting in a future post.Bucket List: Personally, I keep getting drawn back to my two great travel loves, Southeast Asia and Latin America. Whenever I find myself with a chunk of unplanned time, I find myself pointing back to these two locations and scheming to see new corners of them. I’ve never taken the time to type one out, but I do have a bucket list in the back of my mind that I always flip to.So, you’ve decided where to go. Unless you’re boat or train-bound, or you’ve got a set of wheels and a destination within driving distance, you’re going to have to hop a plane to get where you’re going.FlightsIf I’m weighing up a few different trips, the price and convenience of flights can often be what tips a destination in my favor (two years ago, for example, I tacked on a side trip to San Francisco from Los Angeles when a quick iPhone flight search revealed a $60 one way fare.) Booking flights is probably one of the most stressful aspects of travel planning, but new tools are starting to make it bearable. Here are some of my tips, tricks, and findings in the world of airfare.Finding Low FaresWhere to Look: I use KAYAK when searching for international or domestic flights. For domestic flights I also check Southwest directly as their itineraries don’t appear on booking engines, and they are my favorite US airline (hello two free checked bags!). For remote destinations I use Google (simply typing “____ to ____ flight” into the search bar) to double check what low cost carriers fly the route, as they too might not appear on booking engines.Search Secretly: Rumor has it that searching for flights in an incognito browser window can save you cash. The theory is that sites that store cookies (basically, save your information) will see that you’ve been looking for a flight and jack up the price the longer you wait, and by searching incognito you’ll get the best deals. Some say it’s a myth, but hey — no harm in trying, right? In Firefox, you can search incognito by going to File > New Private Window. In Chrome, File > New Incognito Window.Flight Booking TipsFrequent Flyer Miles: Sign up for a frequent flyer account with every airline you fly, just in case. Yet try to pick one major alliance (there are three: Star Alliance, oneworld, and SkyTeam) and be loyal to the airlines within it. Personally, I build miles with American Airlines, a member of the oneworld alliance, and with Southwest, which has its own loyalty program. Being loyal and sometimes paying a bit more than the lowest fare in order to fly with your preferred alliance pays off. Not only can you use your accrued miles to book free flights, but you can also earn status that will allow you free checked bags, premium seat choices and other perks.I chose to consciously start flying with oneworld whenever possible because they have a great redemption deal on a flight I take frequently, New York to Bangkok. I haven’t paid full price for that flight in years — instead of $700 for a one-way flight, I pay 35,000 miles and $70 in taxes. And bonus! When you book with frequent flyer miles, you can change to a different time and date without paying a change fee. This allows me to stay flexible when I’m booking long international adventures. Read on to the next section for more on my adventures in travel hacking…When to Fly: In general, I’ve found it is cheaper to fly midweek than over the weekends. But the exact dates vary, as do the savings. KAYAK’s new Travelhacker interactive map (go click around, I dare you not to become obsessed) shows the cheapest days of the week to depart and return to each continent according to data analysis of lowest airfares from the US and Canada. It also shows the median airfare for round-trip flights to that region. Using KAYAK’s multi-day search tool can also help you score the best deal if you have some flexibility in your departure days. When my friends flew to Martha’s Vineyard from New York for Memorial Day weekend, that very tool saved the trip — while flying Friday to Monday was a no-go at well over $1,000, they realized flying Saturday to Tuesday was a much more reasonable $300 without so much as opening a new tab.When to Buy: It depends on where you’re going. The same KAYAK Travelhacker guide mentioned above also tells you the average number of weeks or months ahead to book in order to get the best deals. Some travelers get crazy enough to research the best time of day and day of the week to book — and I’m one of them! In general, I aim to book flights on Tuesday or Wednesday, when research shows fares are lowest.Once you’re searching, on certain routes KAYAK’s price forecaster predicts whether airfare is likely to rise if you wait. It’s a super handy tool and it often pushes me over the edge towards pressing purchase or being patient. If you want to keep an eye on prices without remembering to check each day, KAYAK allows you to set daily or weekly fare alerts straight to your inbox as well.How to Book FlightsPicking Seats: Personally I’m pretty easy when it comes to picking seats while traveling alone — window seat if I want to sleep, aisle if I want to stay awake. Less height-challenged travelers can dissect their options at SeatGuru to evaluate where they’ll get the most bang — or legroom — for their buck. If I’m traveling with someone else and there’s plenty of seats still available at seat selection, I’ll reserve us the aisle and window seat. Singe travelers are unlikely to choose the middle seat unless forced to, so chances are you’ll end up with a row to yourself. If not, the single traveler between you will likely be overjoyed to switch to either an aisle or middle. If I’m flying with Southwest, who doesn’t pre-assign seating, I set an alarm for twenty-five hours before departure so I remember to be ready the moment check-in opens and nab myself the best boarding position.Agony index: I used to book the cheapest flight no matter what, layovers be damned. I still do if I see a deal I can’t beat, especially when I’m cashing in frequent flyer miles. But in general I try to remember that I might spend just as much eating and entertaining myself over a long stopover as I would have to have flown a more direct route. Don’t forget to factor that in.Gaming the SystemIf you’ve yet to hear of travel hacking, prepare for a whole new world to open up to you — a world I’ve only started to dip my toes in. Travel hacking comes down to accruing points and miles and redeeming them in an effective way, resulting in free travel. You can accrue miles and points the traditional way, by being loyal to a single airline alliance or hotel family, and you can earn them through credit card points.These days, I vary rarely pay full price for a flight — instead, I use miles and points. Right now, I’m not building points with any hotel group though I do have large banks of miles with the airlines mentioned earlier in this post. Yet I earn the most miles when I’m not even in the air, thanks to credit cards. Over the years I’ve flirted with various hotel and airline cards with big sign up bonuses in order to boost my number of hotel points and frequent flyer miles, but in the end the cards I’ve stuck with are the ones with a purchase eraser feature. Such as…The Capital One Venture Card or the Barclaycard Arrival (both with no foreign transaction fees, of course). Both cards offered high sign-up bonuses on approval that helped me earn free travel fast! Both cards also allow me to book any flight on any search engine, and use the points I’ve earned (two points for every dollar spent) to “erase” that flight off my credit card statement. It doesn’t have to be flights, either — I’m just using that as an example, but it can actually be any kind of travel purchase, from hotels to train tickets to even cabs. For example, a $100 flight will cost 10,000 points, which it cost me $4,500 to earn. (Every time you redeem, you get 10% miles back to use toward your next redemption — so it would really only cost 9,000 points, or $4,500 to get that free $100 flight.)Not bad for money you’d spend anyway!  Yet the real benefit is in the initial sign up bonuses, which each yielded me $400 in travel credit. Worried about meeting the minimum spend to nab that bonus? Time your sign up to align with a big purchase you’re already making, like buying a laptop or booking a major flight. And don’t spend a dime in cash unless absolutely necessary — I charge absolutely everything in order to boost those points up as much as possible. There are entire blogs dedicated to the art of travel hacking, so clearly this is only the briefest taste of what you can do. If you’re interested to learn more, you can read in depth about my travel money management system here, and you can read a great intro to travel hacking here.Flight Booking TipsAt the AirportOne Way Tickets: Some international destinations require you to show a return ticket out of the country or the region when you check in for your flight. This can be an issue if you’re on an open-ended, multi-country trip in which you plan to travel overland. I know more than one person who’s been forced to buy a return flight at the gate or be denied boarding. Getting asked to show your proof of exit can come down to luck, though I think looking well-put-together at the flight check in counter and going through immigration doesn’t hurt your chances of getting through hassle-free. But don’t leave it up to chance — research how strict your destination is and what they’ll accept as proof of exit. Can you show a plane ticket out of the continent? A bus ticket out of the country? Can you apply for a visa ahead of time instead? Can you get crafty with Photoshop? (Just kidding on the last one! (But actually not at all kidding.))How to Book FlightsAirport Apps: GateGuru is my go-to once I’m at the airport thanks to terminal maps and restaurant lists filtered by terminal and sorted by gate. Never again settle for Sbarro only to learn there was a Chipotle around the corner! Looking for a lunch date? Check Stopover to see who else is around.TSA Pre-Check and Global Entry: Global Entry and TSA Pre-Check are programs that can make your life at the airport a lot easier through expedited screening and dedicated lines. Last year, I applied for Global Entry (GOES). It cost $100 for five years, and after a lengthy application and an interview at JFK airport, I was granted a Trusted Traveler number that allows me to sail through special Global Entry lines and kiosks when re-entering the US from abroad. When I signed up I was actually primarily interested in the fringe benefit of being auto-enrolled in TSA Pre-Check. TSA Pre-Check is never guaranteed, though when I enrolled in Global Entry I was told to expect it 80% of the time.Lately, it’s never coming up, and on my last domestic flight a sympathetic TSA agent explained that with so many travelers now enrolling in these programs, Pre-Check is being reserved for those that have paid directly for it, and no longer ushering in elite status frequent flyers or Global Entry members who have received Pre-Check consistently in the past. Bummer. I suppose now I’ll have to also enroll in TSA Precheck, which costs $85 and also requires a lengthy application and an in-person interview.  Still, I’d say it’s worth it for five years of dedicated Pre-Check security lines, leaving on your shoes and jacket on, and keeping your laptops and liquids in your bag!Be nice: Didn’t get the seat you wanted and hoping the gate agent can adjust it? Running late and hoping to beg your way to the front of the security line? You better slap on a smile. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve narrowly made a flight due to the help of an airline employee or my fellow passengers, and it’s because I have a strict motto: It’s my problem, not theirs. About to miss check-in time? “Hi, I know I’m checking in ridiculously late and I have no one to blame but myself for this. Is there any way you could help me make my flight today?” Hoping for an aisle seat? “Hi, I know that this flight is pretty booked and you’ve got your hands full, but if there’s any way I could be switched to an aisle seat it would really make my day.” Humor, kindness, and self-deprecation will get you a lot further than hysterics. (Except when it comes to the TSA. Literally nothing will get you anywhere with them. And yes, I’m still bitter about my water bottle.)