What Working Remotely is Really Like + 7 Tips for Working From HomeStopping by because you're now working from home for the first time thanks to the COVID-19 coronavirus? Check out the realities of working remotely, and scroll further down for my top tips for staying productive when you're working from home!You've seen the photos – someone working on a laptop in a hammock, or on a beach, or on a hotel balcony with a killer view (yup, I'm guilty of this last one!).You see these photos and assume that it's not a lifestyle that you could have for yourself; this is surely the lifestyle of someone with more freedom and less responsibility than you.But what if I told you that wasn't necessarily true?Twenty years ago, the concept of “remote work” wasn't even really a thing. People went to an office or out into the field to do their jobs. Hardly anyone worked from home. And, checking in for daily meetings from some remote corner of the world? Unheard of.Working in a riad in MoroccoBut, now, with the proliferation of the internet, many more jobs can be done outside the typical office environment than ever before. Telecommuting has been called “the future of work,” and the growth in remote work has been almost exponential (it's increased by 44% in the last 5 years alone).So some curiosity about what “working remotely” really means is natural.The Realities of Working RemotelyIn some cases, a person might be able to work remotely (or from home) a couple times per month, or maybe even one or two days per week. That IS remote work – but not necessarily the type of telecommuting I want to talk about here. I want to tell you what working 100% remote is really like. What it's like to be “location independent” and make a living from wherever you happen to be in the world.Yemaya Island Hideaway on Little Corn IslandThis could easily be an office for a day (or a month).First of all, there are a couple different kinds of “remote work.”Freelancing – When you're a freelancer, it usually means that you're hired for projects – sometimes one-off, sometimes on an ongoing basis – and your workload and salary can vary greatly month to month. For example, I used to freelance frequently as a writer for a few different travel websites, but would also pick up one-off writing or social media gigs when I could get them.Contract work – When you're working on a contract, it means you can count on a certain amount of work for a set period of time. For example, when I was working for a software startup back in 2014/15, I was on a contract to work at least 20 hours per week. There's still usually some freedom with contract work when it comes to how/when you put in your hours, but it's generally steadier than straight-up freelance work.Full-time work-from-home – This type of remote work is more regimented; more like a full-time job. You have set work hours every day – you're just doing that work from your home rather than a traditional office.These days, I'm a full-time blogger. While I used to focus on freelance and contract work, I have even more freedom now because my blog itself makes me a full-time income. This means I can take on as much (or as little) work as I want, based on what my travel plans look like.And while I do have a home base in Ohio, I could conceivably be traveling full-time or living abroad and still be able to do what I do.Working remotely in BarcelonaWhat kind of things can you do remotely, you ask? Well, things like:WritingEditingTranscribingSocial media managementCustomer serviceWeb/graphic designContent/email marketingCoaching/consultingProject managementBasically any job that you can do 100% from a laptop is something that can be done remotely.Why working remotely is awesomeIf working remotely sounds pretty great so far, that's probably because it is! Or, at least it can be. Having a location-independent lifestyle is great for many reasons.Working remotely in NorwayWorking beside a cozy fireplace in NorwayFor example:1. You can make your own hoursEspecially when you're a freelancer working remotely, you often have the freedom to set your own working hours. Not a morning person? No problem – start your work day at noon and work into the evening. Want to take the afternoon off to go to the beach or to a museum? You can do that, too.As a blogger, my work load varies from week to week (and sometimes from day to day!). By planning ahead, I can often fit the bulk of my work into a few days if I know I want to dedicate some time to something else at some point during the week.Even when I was working on a contract, I could usually plan my work around my schedule – even when I was traveling.2. You can work from anywhereThe biggest upside to location independence and working remotely is, of course, the freedom to work from anywhere you want. All you really need is a laptop and a decent wifi connection.I base myself out of Ohio, and therefore spend a lot of time working from my home (I like to joke about my daily “commute” from the bedroom to the living room or office). But when I travel, I usually take my work with me.I've worked from balconies in Spain, terraces in the Greek Islands, cafes in New Zealand, the beach in Thailand, and while nestled up by the fire in Norway. The freedom to work AND travel is paramount to a travel blogger like me, but is a bonus to other types of remote workers, too.Blogging office in AfricaWorking by the pool in NamibiaWhy remote work is challengingEven though the freedom to work from anywhere and set your own hours is appealing, working remotely (especially as a freelancer) doesn't come without its challenges.1. Self-accountabilityWhen you're a freelancer or a contractor, it often means that you are your own boss. Sure, you might be hired to do specific work for a specific client and given a deadline, but it's ultimately up to YOU (and no one else) to make sure the work gets done on time.There's a lot of self-accountability involved with working remotely, since you don't have a boss or coworkers around to keep tabs on you.2. More distractionsWorking from a co-working space is probably the best idea for most remote workers since it acts like your “office” – however it's not always feasible to pay for a desk somewhere. If you travel a lot like me, it's easier to work from home or from wherever you are on the road.But the freedom to work from anywhere also comes with distractions. At home, there's always the TV, my cat, and every social media site out there tempting me into distraction. When I'm traveling, there's of course always the pull to be out exploring instead of working. If you're working remotely, you'll have to learn how to deal with the distractions in a way that still allows you to be productive.Office on MykonosAn “office” view like this can definitely be distracting!3. You may not always have a steady paycheckOne of the biggest challenges for me as a blogger/freelancer is never knowing exactly how much money I'll be making each month. I often have to hustle for work, and the uncertainty of it all has seriously stressed me out in the past. This is minimized if you take on more contract work, or if you do your “normal” job from home, of course. But it's still something to think about.I've worked hard in the past few years, though, to diversify my income streams so that I'm not relying on one job for all of my income. But diversifying takes time, and until you hit the perfect balance you may not have a steady paycheck to rely on each month.4. It can be hard to stop workingLastly, another huge challenge that I face while working remotely is striking a balance between work and play. It's easier when I'm traveling, since exploring a new destination trumps sitting in front of a laptop just about any day. But when I'm at home, I struggle. I tend to work better in the afternoons/evenings, but this means that I'm often opening up my laptop when a new work idea strikes me well into the night.It's something I don't usually think twice about since I LOVE what I do, but I do realize that I don't have the healthiest work/life balance. Some days I literally have to force myself to close my laptop and put away my phone and do something that doesn't have anything to do with work. This is something I'm constantly working on!Backyard officeIs remote work worth it?I've talked to plenty of people who don't think working remotely or being a freelancer would be a good fit for them. And that's totally fair – being your own boss, setting your own hours, and dealing with salary uncertainty isn't for everyone. There are also some days where I definitely do miss having coworkers and friends in an office, too.But, at the end of the day, this type of lifestyle IS for me. I love being able to plan a trip whenever I want, and I love that I can write a blog post or manage a social media account from the other side of the globe.Even though the challenges seem… well, challenging, the pros of working remotely far outweigh the cons in my eyes.7 tips for working from homeWhether you're new to remote work or an old hand at it, you still need to treat it like work – meaning you need to know what you need to do in order to stay as productive as possible.Here are my top tips for working from home that will help you be both comfortable and productive!1. Know your work styleIf you know you work best in the afternoons instead of the mornings, don't fight it. This is the case for me, so I usually spend my mornings doing things like handling my email inbox and checking on social media. I save the real “work” (in my case, writing and editing) for the afternoon.If you know you need a standardized routine in order to get things done, work on establishing one that can be adapted no matter where you'll be working from. (And if you're switching from working in a regular office setting to working at home, try to replicate your usual office routine as you ease into remote work.)2. Stay organizedWhether you have a boss to answer to or run a one-person show like I do, staying organized and on top of your to-do list is so incredibly important. I stay best organized when I can make lists and set deadlines, and then hold myself accountable to them.My favorite apps for keeping track of tasks include CoSchedule (for my editorial calendar), Trello, and my Google Calendar. Other good organizational tools to check out include Todoist and Notion.3. Create an ideal work environmentBecause I've been doing this for a while, I can essentially work anywhere that has good wifi. But obviously things like a comfortable place to sit and some natural light help, too. Make sure your work environment works for you, whether your necessities are as simple as a couch and a laptop, or as complex as multiple monitors and ergonomic gadgets.Desk setup4. Know how to handle distractionsThere are plenty of handy apps out these these days to help you stay focused. My friend Kate introduced me to the Be Focused app, a free app for Mac that helps you work in 25-minute increments of time. Other apps that help you keep track of your time include RescueTime and Toggl.5. Set goalsWhether these are daily, weekly, quarterly, or yearly, goal-setting is super important for remote workers – especially if you're also running your own business and not just working for someone else.In my line of work, I set loose goals for things like traffic, income, and even how many blog posts I want to publish every month. (And a bonus tip: Celebrate reaching said goals!)6. Know when to stopIt's easy to get wrapped up in work when you don't have set hours or anybody to answer to on a daily basis. Because of this, it's extra important to know when to set the laptop aside. If it helps, set yourself actual working hours every day with established break times so you can get into a routine(And yes, you should absolutely work in regular breaks, even when you're working from home.)7. Learn how to say noAs a freelancer especially, many people will expect a lot from you. Often all at once. When I first started working remotely, I would jump at literally any chance to make extra money. But that's how you get burnt out as a freelancer. When working for yourself, you HAVE to learn how to say no, for both your mental and physical well-being.So what's your take on working remotely? Is it something you'd ever want to do?I've been saying for the past few years that river cruising is probably one of the best ways to travel in Europe if you want to see a lot in a short amount of time. River cruises allow you to get a taste of a region without all the hassle of planning out all the details on your own.But every time I bring this up as an option, I have people skeptically ask me whether a river cruise is really right for them.“Aren't river cruises just for old people?” they usually ask.And it's true that most river cruise lines market to Baby Boomers and retirees with disposable income. BUT, I always point out that it's only a matter of time before Gen Xers and Millennials become the market for river cruises because of the ways our travel styles are evolving.What the new generation of river cruiser might soon look like!Recent studies have shown that Millennials are traveling differently than many people would have expected; we want to spend money on memorable experiences and traveling, but we don't always have the time to plan out our bucket list trips on our own.Which is why I think it's super smart that river cruise line Avalon Waterways is starting to offer cruises that appeal more to this generation.Amanda at Fisherman's Bastion in BudapestNote: This post was brought to you as a result of a paid project between myself, Avalon Waterways and iambassador. As always, all opinions are completely my own.The Active & Discovery cruiseNot long ago, Avalon Waterways decided to bring a totally new type of cruise to the market: the “Active & Discovery” cruise, which would focus more on active excursions and tours that offered opportunities for deeper cultural immersion.Instead of the standard walking and bus tours in the “usual” river cruise ports, Avalon began pushing the envelope, developing different types of tours in destinations that weren't always on the usual cruise routes.What resulted was a type of cruise with more interesting tour options that has been appealing to a different type of river cruiser.Bread baking class in ViennaI sailed on Avalon's “Active & Discovery on the Danube” itinerary in June, and was pleasantly surprised to find all sorts of people onboard with me. There was the multigenerational group of sisters and aunts; the family with teenagers; the couple on their very first trip to Europe; and so many more.While the average age on most other river cruises I've been on has been mid-60s, I'd say the average age on this one was probably close to 20 years younger.Signs an active river cruise is right for youTo help illustrate what an active river cruise is really like, I've come up with a list of things you can expect on this new type of cruise. If one or more of the below is true, then an active river cruise with Avalon Waterways might be right for you!1. You want to be active on vacationAmanda cycling in the Wachau Valley in AustriaCycling in the Wachau ValleyDuh! Obviously the number one reason that an active river cruise might be a great choice for you is if you want to keep moving, even on holiday. Cruises are often stereotyped by visions of buffet lines and lounging by the pool, but they don't have to be.On an active river cruise with Avalon Waterways, you'll have a chance every day to get your heart pumping. The Danube cruise I went on had 4 bike tours, 2 hiking tours, 2 canoe trips, and even a running tour offered throughout the week. Additionally, the ship had 16 bikes of its own onboard you could take out at any time, as well as daily yoga and other fitness classes lead by the ship's Adventure Host.Yoga class on a river cruise shipYoga on board the Avalon ImpressionThe best part about this style of cruising was that you could go out and have your adventure, but then come back to the comfort (and air conditioning!) of the ship. It felt good to work up a sweat on a bike ride, but then come back to the ship to take a shower and sit around in a robe while you sailed down the river.Amanda at a viewpoint over the Danube RiverSweaty but smiling after a hike up to this view out over the DanubeI will say that even after a week of multi-course meals and far too many afternoon tea (read: cookie) breaks, I didn't gain a single pound while on this cruise!2. “Relaxed luxury” sounds good to youAvalon Waterways doesn't really market itself as a “luxury” product, even though its ships and service sure seem luxurious. They purposely don't use “the L word” because there's nothing stuffy or inaccessible about a cruise on an Avalon ship.Instead, the phrase the cruise line has been using to describe what it offers is “relaxed luxury.” So yes, someone will be there to pour your wine and make up your bed every day, but you can also wander around the ship in flip-flops and go out for a sweaty hike in the afternoon and not feel weird about it.Amanda relaxing in an Avalon Waterways state roomRelaxed luxury: the photo shootIf this sounds like your sort of atmosphere, then Avalon might be the river cruise line for you.3. You want the big picture taken care of for youMany of my Millennial friends often tell me that they feel like they might travel more if they had time to actually *plan* a trip. In an era where time is money and none of us ever seem to have enough of either, it can be overwhelming to sit down to start planning a trip from scratch – especially if you don't do it very often.The good thing about a river cruise is that everything is more or less planned for you once you book. Your meals and accommodation are covered; you don't have to worry about getting from Point A to Point B since you just sail there; someone can even help you book flights, and will pick you up from the airport.Sunset on the Avalon ImpressionThe only thing you really have to agonize over with a river cruise is which excursions to sign up for. On Avalon, there are a lot to choose from – sometimes up to 5 different tours every day! – but each style (Active, Discovery, and Classic) is slightly different, meaning you can mix and match depending on your interests.A river cruise is probably one of the most stress-free ways you can travel in Europe. Instead of worrying about flight routes and public transport and where you're going to have dinner, you can fully immerse yourself in the excursions and spend the rest of your time relaxing on the ship.Cycling past vineyards in the Wachau Valley in AustriaCycling in the Wachau Valley4. You want to see a different side of EuropeAlong with the active excursions, I liked my cruise with Avalon because we didn't go to all the same places that the other river cruise lines go. Yes, we started in Budapest and stopped in Vienna (both very popular cruise ports), but we also stopped in smaller towns where we were usually the only boat docked.Sailing the DanubeAvalon Waterways is dedicated to sustainable tourism from a development perspective, too. They want to work with smaller local communities to develop new tours and excursions to share with their guests – meaning you get to do some things on an Avalon cruise that you won't do on any others.Some cool off-the-beaten-track places we visited on my cruise included castle ruins in Visegrad, Hungary; an old theater in Grein, Austria; the tiny town of Engelhartszell, Austria, and more.Tour group in Engelhartszell, AustriaLearning about Trappist monks in AustriaWe took tours with local guides who spoke about what it was like to live in a trendy Vienna neighborhood, grow up in Budapest during its Soviet days, and run businesses in small Danube-side towns.So even though this is labeled as an “active” cruise, there's also a lot of meaningful cultural exchange on offer for those interested in learning about Europe beyond the main tourist sites.Austrian marching bandWe stumbled upon a Confirmation-day marching band concert in Grein5. You want to travel with family or friendsOf all the river cruise lines I've traveled with, I think Avalon Waterways – and specifically these new Active & Discovery itineraries – is best suited to families. And, indeed, there were several families onboard my sailing, including some with teenagers and a couple with younger kids (kids 8 and up are welcome on Avalon).There were other multi-generational groups of family and friends, too, who would often do different things during the day and then meet up again at mealtimes.Some of you can go visit St. Florian Monastery…… while others can do something outdoors or just stay on the ship.Everything about the way Avalon structures its cruises makes this “choose your own adventure” style of travel possible. Every day there are multiple excursion options, multiple ways and places to eat meals, and a knowledgable staff to help you decide what everyone should do.This isn't to say that a river cruise like this isn't suitable for couples – it totally is! (In fact, Avalon sets its dining rooms up to very couple-friendly with plenty of 2-seater tables.) But it's also a great option for families or groups who want a trip that will suit everyone.Amanda in front of a yellow wall in Grein, AustriaOr hey, you could travel solo, too!6. You don't want to take the same cruise that everyone else doesLastly, if you're like me and want to travel a little bit differently than all of your friends, an Active & Discovery river cruise could be just the way to do that.You might have friends who have been to Budapest or Vienna, but did they visit Memento Park in an old Trabant, or shape hand-rolls in a baking class? Did they hike to an ancient castle or ride a portion of the Danube Cycle Path? Did they kayak on the Danube or taste beer made by the only Trappist monks in Austria?Memento Park in BudapestOur group was the only one at Memento Park in BudapestTrappist beer tasting in AustriaTrappist beer tasting in AustriaChances are they probably didn't, which is just one more way that Avalon's cruises stand out from the other options out there.Even though I've been on river cruises before, and even though I've visited some of the cities we stopped in on previous trips in Europe, everything I did on my cruise with Avalon Waterways was new to me.