What is it like to go on the Venice Simplon Orient Express train from Venice to LondonA journey on the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train was something I have always wanted to do ? it is one of those true luxury travel experiences that are on everyoneБfs bucket list. After a taster journey on the Belmond British Pullman, the sister train of the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express, earlier this summer, we knew good things were coming our way. Very good things indeed. Check-inOn this journey, we were travelling from Venice to London, departing at 11am from Santa Lucia station, and arriving at around 6pm the following day to LondonБfs Victoria station. Seventeen hours of 1920s luxury, impeccable service, incredible scenery (as we travelled through Italy, Austria, Switzerland, France and the United Kingdom) and fine dining. And a glass of champagne or three.We made our way to VeniceБfs main train station and had a little bit of trouble finding where we were supposed to get to ? not sure if I was expecting more signage, but in the end, it was a matter of following well-dressed people, as they kind of stood out.One of the things I loved when I got my travel documentation, was to read carefully about the dress code. It stated: БeIn keeping with the spirit of the occasion, you can never be overdressed on boardБe. Needless to say jeans, shorts and trainers are not allowed on board, but in all honesty, there were some people almost breaking the code, and that made me sad. It is a special occasion and Mr. O and I were determined to, well, be ourselves, and dress the part. It is never a chore, believe me.I must confess to one of the most embarrassing moments of my life. You know that moment. Everyone had that moment. I had it once 14 years ago as I was trying to board a plane ? and did not have my passport with me. I saw the passports in the morning before we left our hotel, and I can swear to God that I put them in my handbag. But, when we were asked for them, they were nowhere to be found. BUT, for some bizarre reason, and as the lovely hostess was calling our hotel, and calling a water taxi, I decided to check our suitcases and found them inside my bag. I was blushing and Mr. O was very silent. No words were needed. You would think I had done this before.t this stage, you let go of your luggage and you can check-in items that you will only see when you arrive at your destination (in this case, Paris or London), and you are allowed a carry-on bag (and a garment bag) per passenger which will be delivered to your cabin. The idea is that you have as little with you as you can, as you can imagine, space is limited.Mr. O and I, together with other passengers, were then escorted to what we thought was the lounge, similar to the one we had visited at Victoria Station ? but there is not a dedicated lounge at Venice, and instead, all VSOE passengers use a very nice coffee shop, where a spacious area has been pre-booked and you can have tea, coffee and biscuits.And all of a sudden, it was 10.30am and the train was arriving at the platform. I have to say, this was and will always be one of the most treasured travel memories of my life. Everyone, without exception was so excited to be about to embark on such an experience, everyone looked like children at a candy store. And that was lovely ? no one was Бetoo coolБf, every person (we had 120+ passengers on board on this date) looked truly happyThe Venice Simplon Orient Express trainThe train was a beauty ? and I have to say, the staff had the best uniforms ever. The Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train was quite long, but the walk was one to be enjoyed slowly, but surely. There were no queues, no rushing, and a lot of photographs being taken. And so many smiles, it was infectious.And, I am not quite sure how to put this, the recruitment process at the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express follows very strict procedures, which surely you will understand if you look at every photograph.We made our way towards our carriage (J) which was almost at the end of the train ? for reference, the passenger sleeper carriages are at each end of the train, and the restaurants, piano bar, service and kitchen carriages are in the middle. Walking from one end of the train can take a good 15 minutes, and that depends on good you are walking in motion.When we got to our carriage, we were met by Vincent, who was our Cabin Steward. A true Frenchman, with a great sense of humour, we knew we had nothing to worry about from the moment we first met.There are 3 types of cabins on the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train ? single cabins, double cabins, and suite cabins. 90% of the cabins are double cabins and on each carriage you will find a single cabin and a suite cabin, which is basically two interconnecting rooms.As luck would have it, we were actually assigned a suite cabin, which meant we had twice the space. There is no first class or second class on this train ? everyone has paid exactly the same and has the same level of service. The double cabins sleep up to 4 passengers, are increasingly being used by families (with very well-behaved children, I have been told).We were escorted to our cabin, where we found our luggage stowed away, and the first thing we did was just unpack our garment carriers so that our evening attire would be in tip-top shape for the festivities to come. All of a sudden, we felt the train move and we were on our way to Verona. Everything was simple and so different from an airplane.We found a chilled bottle of champagne and nuts waiting for us, and we couldnБft resist it ? it would be rude to. So champagne glass in hand, it has time to explore the our cabin.In each cabin, you will find a basin and a vanity unit (with very interesting storage). I knew that there would be no showers, but I also knew it was kind of half the fun. I obviously took baby wipes, but I was very keen to see what was offered in terms of washing products ? and possibly, the best wash bag in the world. Ever.There were also branded tissues, many many bottles of Acqua Panna around the cabin (replaced throughout the journey), and wonderful Fragonard goodies. But the Бedry-showerБf Temple Spa range was truly unique (and very effective, for the record). I tried pretty much every product and they were very good.There are no loos in each cabin ? but there are two per carriage. They were always impeccable and I never had to queue, so no issues there either.At first, Vincent came to say hello to us, but also to explain how everything worked ? we also handed over our passports, which were kept throughout the journey as we were obviously crossing various borders, including non-Schengen countries. We were also visited by the Maitre dБfHotel who came to explain how each meal worked and we were given the option between two seatings for lunch and dinner.As it was 11.30am, we werenБft quite ready for the 12pm seating, so we chose the 2pm seating, which gave us time to just sit down and enjoy the ride. There was no rush.Under an hour after Venice, we made a stop in Verona. Throughout the journey there are quite a few technical stops ? very handy for smokers, as you cannot obviously smoke on the train ? which allowed everyone to stretch their legs every now and then. Some stops were too short, but others were 20-30 minutes and it was good to be Бein Innsbruck for 2o minutesБf, for exampleBefore we knew it, it was time for lunch ? and we were starving! With the train fare, БeTable dБfHoteБf meals are included. This means that there is a set menu for each meal, and if you want to order off-menu, you pay extra, as you do for any drinks. Needless to say, that the team will be extra careful with any allergies or dietary restrictions, but you need to do this at the time of booking.For lunch, we had duck foie gras which was wonderful. Those babies did not die in vain, is all I can say. This beauty was followed by pan-fried John Dory with butter beans and the best most exquisite mashed potatoes: it was made of white potatoes and violet. To finish, we had pineapple roasted in brown sugar and Бeits sorbetБf, with yummy salted caramel mousse. Obviously, this is not the time to diet or even think about it. As we were always moving, the calories were almost negative. Trust me.You are assigned a table and dining car, and during the journey, you will get to try a few of them ? only the decor differs (and its distance from the bar), but gives you a little change of scenery.Before retiring to our cabin, we actually walked around the train just to see everything in day light, before we headed back. We politely declined afternoon tea at around 5pm as we seriously could not eat, and I am not ashamed to say we managed a little nap in between writing postcards for our friends and family and also readers who had requested a postcard. Each cabin comes with 4 (and it is a free, but not express service, but then again, who cares if a letter takes a week or two?), and I had so many requests coming through Twitter, that I asked for quite a few more, and just wrote away. We woke up when the train stopped ? which I found quite interesting. I was a bit worried if I would sleep ok, but I assure you ? no issues there. The motion worked wonders and the БeproblemБf was when the train stopped.This time around, we were in Innsbruck for a longer stop as we had to change engines. What? Well, it was actually quite interesting. The train (and there is only one Venice Simplon-Orient-Express train, for the record, which goes on different journeys each time around Europe), is pulled by an engine, and each time you cross a border into a new country, you need to get a new one. The process was quite quick, but it was something I had never thought about, so it was interesting to see.At this time, it was almost 6pm and perfect to see some of the scenery ? I loved glancing out of the window and seeing how dramatically different the scenery was. And stunningWe were visited again in our cabin to select our dining time (obviously it had to be the 9pm sitting) and it was time to get ready, as cocktails in the bar awaited. That meant a DJ (tuxedo) for Mr. O and a long evening dress for yours truly.I had heard many many stories about the legendary bar cart and seriously could not wait. It was also where the whole train come together and you could see a many passengers at the same time in the same place.We had a pre-dinner Gin & Tonic (very good to see different varieties, with Monkey 47 and Fever Tree being our clear favourite) and also canap?s. Regarding the passengers, I often wondered if the average age was over 70, but I have to say ? it was not. More than half the guests were in their 40s and 50s, with many 30-somethings like me, and obviously people who have enjoyed longer lives and it was a fantastic mix. Everyone was keen to chat and we did get to hear some fantastic stories.Dinner was superb. All meals we had were true fine dining and I donБft know to this date how they prepare such dishes on a moving train. Walking around in heels wasnБft easy, taking photos was challenging, and I will always be in awe of the skill demonstrated by the team. No one ever spilled anything (I did, worry not).Back on to the Belmond British PullmanAs we all got on the bus, we made our way to the Channel Tunnel, were we were to cross the channel by getting onto a train. I had done this twice before and it is fantastic as it takes only 30 minutes or so. But before, we all had to clear UK immigration before we left France, which meant we had to get out of the train, go through passport control and then back on the bus. Which, by the way, had the best driver in the world as I can assure you he got the bus inside the train in 3 movements or three. Very impressive.As we arrived into the UK, we were dropped off at Folkestone West, where the lovely lovely lovely sister of the Venice Simplon-Orient-Express was waiting for us ? the Belmond British Pullman would be our fab ride into London (you can read about my previous experience here).We waited in a little lounge while the train arrived, and we had the loveliest welcome by a local band. You can see the video right here.Our journey to London took under two hours and it went so quickly, I cannot tell you. We were welcomed with a glass of sparkling rose (British, of course!!) and treated to our final Belmond meal ? a very tasty afternoon tea, which is one of my favourite meals.How we are getting on with our Stage 1 of our UK Adoption JourneyOur UK adoption journey officially began on 18 November 2019. That was the day Simon and I signed the papers to officially begin the process which is made up of 3 parts ? and we are beginning stage 1.After an unsuccessful IVF round in April (you can read my IVF and life updates here, here and here), we decided to take a break and just think. I still had one round included in my IVF treatment pack (yes, they do sell them in packs and you will almost get a 3 for 2 deal not including medication and other extras) but after a week or so (and not hearing a word from the IVF clinic who only called to ask when I would like to rebook my next round), Simon and I decided we were done.This time round, I had twice the medication as before and I got to a point where I said no more. And that was it.We had talked about adoption since we started treatment 5 years prior and were always very keen to explore more so we did a bit of reading and tried to understand how the UK adoption process worked.To my understanding (do not quote me on this, but there are plenty of reading materials which we are working through at the moment), you go through a process which gets you to a stage where you are approved (or not) by an official adoption panel. Adopting with Local authority v. CharityTo get there, you have 2 routes: you go to your local authority, which has a team specialising in adoption who works with the other social services teams. The main goal is of course to place the children in their care with the most suitable families. Alternatively, you go to a charity, who Бehave no childrenБf (who are always under the care of local authorities) and they take you through the process, then go nationwide (or internationally if accredited to do so) and find you a child based on your criteria and the ones available via the local authorities. Worth knowing that if we are not matched with a child (or children) from our local authority, our designated social worker will then begin a national search.There are no private adoption agencies in the UK (nor is it a for profit activity) ? you can then look for children outside the country, but only when you are approved to be an adopter. Otherwise it is called child trafficking (which makes perfect sense).We didnБft know where to begin, so we decided to speak to both our local authority (Adopt Thames Valley, which is actually made up of various local councils, with more pooled resources) and PACT, a charity that (ironically) my husband had supported through donations via another organisation.Both organisations were quick to respond to our initial email and schedule an call, but this is where all similarities ended. It is quite interesting ? so I will provide some details.With the charity, we had an initial call and then booked a longer call, where we went through our history, motivations, brief financials and went we got to the medical part, where obviously we mentioned that I had IVF and my husband had had prostate cancer (which was successfully removed without any need for further treatment). It was a big БeohБf as the lady who was taking our call (who kept saying БecoolБf at the end of each answer and was really quite young), then said Бeoh, you need to be cancer free for 5 yearsБf. There is no such requirement in UK law (of course you need to be healthy), and in our case, the organ was actually removed, so technically the same cancer could not come back. She said she would speak to her manager and a week later, told us that their medical advisor said Бethat then, 2 years would be enoughБf. The point of me sharing this detail is because we were BAFFLED by how someone made a decision with a real impact on our lives without asking for any medical records, wanting to speak to our consultant or actually meet us. We then got particularly annoyed and asked our consultant to send them a letter (and he was baffled as well). The last straw was when on our last call, we were told that because Simon was older, they could consider continuing the UK adoption process if we accepted an older and more handicapped child. Nothing made any sense and we decided to end that process there and then. I am sure that they and other charities do some great work, but the approach and attention we received were not what we expected at all.With the local authority, it was completely different. Our first call was with someone quite senior, whose tone of voice was empathetic and understanding. It turned out that they were having an open night event the following week and we went along.Over 2 hours (I think), they explained how the UK adoption process worked, what was really going to happen, how children get into the system, introduced the fostering for adoption concept, siblings etc. The room was packed and with people from all ages and races. We then heard from an adopter who had 2 girls and it was actually great to hear a positive and happy story. We left the event and booked a trip to Gocek in Turkey departing the following morning, to go and get some air and think. It actually did us a world of good, and I couldnБft have picked a better place.These 2 conversations happened at the same time (with the local authority and the charity), so the difference in tone and attitude was even more noticeable. We then had a 90 minute call with the local authority a few weeks later and again, completely different. We knew there and then that we wanted to proceed with the local authority and booked the first house visit meeting for end of October. 