LAbor UNION Festival 2017: Labor Weekend with Music, Food, and Surfing! (Photo Essay)Music, art, and surfing collide in LAbor UNION Festival 2017!Inspired by Aklan’s LaBoracay, the festival brought three days of non-stop partying over the recent Labor Day weekend in the Philippines’ surfing capital of the north, La Union.The revival of the 2015 festival ushered in live music from iconic Filipino talents such as Barbie Almalbis, Kevin Toy’s, and Hilera, which had the beaches of San Juan flowing with good vibes.Proceeds from the non-profit event went to the conservation of the Pawikan and to helping the indigenous groups of Northern and Southern Cordillera known as the Kankanaeys.Check out all the things that make surf culture awesome with our guide to the LAbor UNION weekend (April 28-30, 2017)…LAbor UNION Festival 2017San Juan La UnionApril 28-30, 2017How to Get ThereBy Car: Take the North Luzon Expressway (NLEX) then connect through the Subic-Clark-Tarlac Expressway (SCTEX) and then connect to the new Tarlac-Pangasinan-La Union Expressway (TPLEX). Exit at Binalonan, and follow the National Highway (MacArthur Highway) through Pangasinan and then La Union.By Bus: We took the Partas Bus (via pre-online booking with Biyaheroes.com) at the Cubao Terminal. Ride the bus going to Laoag, Vigan, Abra, Ilocos Sur & San Fernando, La Union and set your drop-off point to San Juan, La Union. You can conveniently get off the bus in front of your resort.*If your bus destination is San Fernando, La Union, you will need to take a 15-minute tricycle ride from San Fernando town to SAN JUAN SURF RESORT for P50-100.Also, make sure to check if the bus route is driving through the Tarlac–Pangasinan–La Union Expressway (TPLEx). This route should only take you about 5-6 hours of travel with one stop-over.Partas Cubao Terminal -> Laoag (San, Juan La Union Drop-off) – P524San Fernando Terminal -> Partas Cubao Terminal – P436Tip: For a hassle-free experience, make sure to pre-book online with Biyaheroes.com, which makes public transport so much easier, even for first-time commuters. With their real-time seat and schedule selectors, commuters get a very useful overview of their trip schedules so they can plan ahead.You’ll just need to arrive with your booking arrangement at the counter an hour before departure. We heard that some who would catch the bus on the same day could wait as long as 12-hours just to get a ride, especially on a long weekend such as this!STARTING AUGUST 8, Partas will start offering EXPRESS DAILY DIRECT trips from MANILA (Cubao/Pasay) to AND from SEBAY, San Juan, La Union!The Labor Union Festival was held at the beach front of San Juan Surf Resort, where we checked-in.The resort is owned by Australian surfer Brian Landrigan. It has 35 rooms complete with amenities, including a restaurant, bar, spa, surf school, and surf shop.The rooms are simple but complete with queen size beds, toiletries, hot shower, cable television, and air-conditioner. Deluxe Room for two persons is P2,850.To start the festival off, adrenaline junkies can catch AXN’s daring Big Thrill obstacle courses that will put their stamina to the test.They could also catch some waves of their own and continue partying on the beach. The best time to surf is in the afternoon (3-5 pm) during low tide.If you’re a beginner, an instructor is strongly advised. They can help you with the proper stance, balancing, paddling, and catching your first wave! (P400/Hour – board + instructor).For pros, you can rent a board for P200/hour.Hungry surfers and sun worshipers can easily walk along the beach and on the parallel road, where lanes of restaurants offer a wide array of cuisines. There are also a number of caf?s and food stalls to choose from.LAKBAY NORTE 6: A Road Trip to Nueva Ecija and Cagayan Valley!Lakbay Norte is an annual media tour brought by the North Philippines Visitors Bureau (NPVB) – a non-stock profit membership umbrella organization of Convention & Visitors Bureau (CVB's) that's sponsored by the Manila North Tollways Corp (NLEX-SCTEX) – which aims to promote tourism in the north Luzon.For its 6th installation, the itinerary involved a five-day trip to the North, specifically in Nueva Ecija and Cagayan Valley.NUEVA ECIJAGoing around Nueva Ecija meant experiencing the farm life, as it is known as biggest rice producer of Central Luzon; hence, the name "Rice Bowl of the Philippines."A visit to Philrice gave us a deeper understanding of the farmer's life. In fact, we were exposed to their campaign called "Be Riceponsible," which aims to encourage farmers, policy makers, and the public to help improve the rice industry of the Philippines. We also visited a farm called PMP Paradise Farm; a 250-hectare farm that is located at the base of Sierra Madre Mountains. "PMP" stands for the owner's name: Pablo M. Pagtalunan. The farm is a manifestation of his great vision of cultivation of the place as it is slowly turning into reality.Rice paddies, man-made and natural bodies of water are home to a diverse collection of plants and animals, making it a perfect place to reconnect with nature and one's self.More than your average farm tour, where you only get to observe the kind of lifestyle that the community lives, PMP Paradise farm lets you experience everything first hand – from fishing on a floating bahay-kubo, sheep herding to making your own merienda (palitaw sa linga and nilupak).(This is Nilupak na Kamoteng Kahoy – a Filipino snack made from mashed Cassava. It is made by pounding boiled cassava root, along with the rest of ingredients, in a big stone mortar and pestle)(This is Palitaw – another Filipino snack made from rice. It involves a similar process, as it requires crushing rice with this traditional device, in which it turns the rice into liquid substance that is then dried and used as the base of your palitaw)More than the farm visits, we encountered a different side of Nueva Ecija seen in Minalungao National Park.It's a recreational place where you can do several activities, like trekking to the Cross of 1000 steps and bamboo rafting.Other than that, we also got a taste of the different local delicacies that ranged from locally made ice cream to tiniim na manok (Chicken Tiim) and kalderetang kambing.Not only rich in cream, but also in its history; Puno's Ice cream is a very well loved local brand in the vicinity of Nueva Ecija. It was founded by Atanacio and Simeona Puno and has been passed down for almost 5 generations.With that, they have perfected the taste and quality that the natives have been looking for in a cold sweet treat such as ice cream. Their best-sellers are buko sherbet with lychees and cheese casoy macapuno, but they also have flavors like ube macapuno, fruit salad, and cookies and cream.Tiniim na Manok is a native dish in Nueva Ecija. It is called as such because of the way it is cooked – a pineapple marinade chicken slow cooked.This is similar to your typical kaldereta, except the meat used is kambing (goat); hence, its name, Kalderetang Kambing. CAGAYAN VALLEYWe had a similar experience in Cagayan Valley, but instead of farms, we encountered churches.The Basilica Minore De Nuestra Senora De Minora – a part of the Twelve Minor Basilica in the Philippines. This church exudes a certain uniqueness, as its entrance arch is located at the back of the church.The St. Peter Metropolitan Cathedral can also be found in the city of Tuguegarao. It is one of the largest Spanish built churches in Cagayan Valley.Seen in the extravagant ornamentation that the church had – from its awe-striking door to its beautiful ceiling – it was apparent that this church is from the Baroque era.IGUIGOther than this, a municipality, namely Iguig, is known for two things: pottery center of the north and the Holy Land of the North.Iguig was found during the pre-war days, and has ultimately outlived the damaged brought upon the World War 2 due to its ceramic production; hence, its name "pottery center of Cagayan Valley."Bricks and pots produced here are also considered as One Town One Product Commodity – a government project that aims to promote goods and products of various Filipino towns.Their products, pottery, and bricks, are a true testament to each and everyone's hard work. Its quality leaves me wondering how a set of hands can create such a delicate piece of art such as these.It is dubbed as the Holy Land of the North mainly because of Calvary Hills.It's 11 hectares of hills where you can find life-size figures depicting each of the 14 Stations of the Cross, which makes it the go-to place for the pilgrimage done every Holy Week.More than the evident religious upbringing of the place, we came across the beautiful Palaui Island – home to many things such as the Lagunzad trail, Leonardo's trail, Siwangag Trail, Cape Enga?o and the Survivor series.Foggy Mountain Cookhouse: Have you Tried the Best Restaurant in Baguio in 2016?Foggy Mountain Cookhouse, a gem nestled in the nooks and crannies of Baguio, guarantees you the most intimate dining experience. As home to the tastiest Mediterranean dishes in the area, this reservation and pre-order only establishment is well worth your time and money.Owner, Marianito “Chef Babes” Reyes, started this humble cookhouse during his retirement in the exporting business. His travels abroad have widened his culinary horizons, which he now shares through his love of honest, rustic food.Chef Babes invites you to the comfort of his home to experience the Foggy Mountain treatment… FOGGY MOUNTAIN COOKHOUSE172 St. Joseph Street, San Carlos Heights, Purok 24, Baguio CityOperation Hours:Monday to Saturday: 11AM to 3PM | 6PM to 11PMClosed on SundaysEmail: chefbabes@gmail.comMobile: +63 916 767 4687 | +63 932 762 3639Facebook: Foggy Mountain CookhouseNote: Credit cards cannot be processed yet.While he spends most of his time in Manila, he prefers staying in Baguio to run the restaurant as a way to unwind.The cookhouse itself is actually the ancestral resting house of Chef Babes’ family.The area is so fresh and clear of urban distractions that you can smell the food being prepared from the outside.They only accept day before reservation and you have to pre-order your dish. The Cookhouse can seat up to 20 Guests only.(Note: Main dishes are served with single serving of Full Course Inclusion(FCI), Iced Tea or Vodka 7-Up with Mint, an appetizer or salad, Moroccan rice, and dessert. Sharing is encouraged as servings are big. Additional FCI is P200 per person.)Aside from the great food, one of the things you pay for is also the view. This is where the resto got its name.All dishes are fresh and prepared from scratch on the day—ensuring the best quality of food. Chef Babes oversees all kitchen operations; if something is not on par with his quality, he will give it to the staff and re-make it.All herbs are picked from the garden. Some dishes may have varying ingredients as the food prepared is dependent on what’s available at the market. WHAT TO PRE-ORDERGreek Peasant Lamb (P500). Lamb shoulder cuts, slow-simmered with fresh rosemary and wine, served on mashed potatoes or polenta.Delicious and fall-off-the-bone, the Peasant Lamb pays homage to a dish Chef Babes ate during his travels.The classic pairing of savory meat and root vegetables is comforting and a perfect dish for the chilly Baguio weather.Crispy Squid Fries (P450). Thick strips of giant squid, truffle oil infused mash, and dill tartare sauce.Chef Babes gets some of the best cuts of meat and fish from his connections in the exporting industry.These squid fries go delightfully well with the tangy, and herb-infused tartare sauce.Grilled Chipotle Pork Chop (P450). One-inch thick pork chop marinated in chipotle and honey.The homemade chipotle sauce is made from dried jalape?os, cumin, salt, pepper, and a pinch of cinnamon for that little something-something.The chop is marinated for at least a day before slow-cooking in an ovenGrilled USDA Ribeye (P750+ depending on weight). Seasoned with herb salt, and served with smashed potatoes, and balsamic reduction.The balsamic reduction is a tangy touch to the steak. You don’t need a lot of it, as the sauce is thick but not so overpowering that you miss out on the meat flavors.(Note: Don’t forget the potatoes, which have been boiled, smashed, then fried to a crisp!)Mt. Pulag Climb: Day before the Summit Climb (Part 1)Mt. Pulag is the third highest mountain in the Philippines, standing at 2,922 masl (meters above sea level), after Mt. Apo in Davao (2,954 masl) and Mt. Dulang Dulang in Bukidnon (2,938 masl). The government no longer allows camping during weekends in the mountain and promotes homestay instead for those who want to climb to the summit. There are plans to close the Ambangeg trail next year to let the mountain recover.Here’s a photo essay of our Climb Mt. Pulag adventure with Jeron Travel and Trail Adventours last March 4-6, 2016…En route to Mt. PulagWe took the Victory Liner bus that leaves at 10.00pm on a Friday night from Victory Pasay bus station.Arrived in Baguio around 4 am to meet up with our fellow hikers. Breakfast at Banao’s StopoverWe stopped for breakfast at Banao Stopover & Eatery, which serves freshly prepared home-cooked turo-turo dishes.God is waiting for us at the Kerygma Conference…I attended the very first Kerygma Conference in 2007 when I was at a crossroad in my career.I was praying to God to find my passion and purpose in life. I was torn between continuing a career with a company that I love in P&G Philippines or to pursue my blog Our Awesome Planet full time.During one of the Gospel sessions, Bro. Bo Sanchez prayed for the Holy Spirit to touch the lives of the attendees. I clearly remember when I closed my eyes I saw a vision of thousands of people hugging me and thanking me for my blog. My son Aidan who attended with me hugged me, and I cried the entire time.In 2008, I quit my high paying job in the best multinational company in Manila to pursue blogging. That vision gave me the determination and inspiration to pursue Our Awesome Planet full time. Looking back after 10 years, I'm happy I attended the conference and made that life-changing decision. I invite you to have that transformative experience at this year's Kerygma Conference. Here's what to expect…1. Kerygma Conference is the biggest inspirational learning event in the country today.This means four (4) powerful days of non-stop learning with as many as nine (9) classes of your choice from five (5) different streams—business and career, leadership and education, church ministry and systems, wellness and health, and family and relationships.From dating tips for singles and understanding the importance of work-life balance, to learning how to start on your investments for young professionals and discovering simple recipes that will be good for your health, the Kerygma Conference is sure to add knowledge to almost every area of life. Now that’s truly learning and inspiration like no other!2. Hear it straight from well-known lay preacher and best-selling author, Bo Sanchez.Bo Sanchez’s mission is to bless you because He believes that God loves you as if you’re the only one left on earth to love. He’ll be preparing his talks for the Kerygma Conference with that intention in mind — so get ready to be blessed like never before!3. Learn from our world-class speakers.Experience an overflow of learning from our plenary speakers: Rex Mendoza, Justin Fatica (of the U.S. based Hard As Nails Ministry), Fr. Joel Jason, Arun Gogna and Alvin Barcelona.International speakers Jana Stanfield, Scott Friedman, and Jonathan Low will also be sharing to us business and leadership insights in their respective classes.Other esteemed speakers who will be at the Kerygma Conference are Francis Kong, Paulo Tibig, Jojo Apolo, Rissa Singson-Kawpeng, Ichel Alignay, and many more! 4. Bring deeper meaning to your long weekend.Planning for a long weekend trip during the APEC Summit? Why not try something different this time?Since November 19 has been declared as a non-working holiday for the APEC event, you would only need to take a leave on the 20th and then you’re good to go!Again, an event that combines both learning and inspiration in just 4 days comes only once a year — so it’s a bonus that the said event falls on a holiday! Take advantage of that, and come join us at the Kerygma Conference!5. There is something for everyone.There’s a Youth Conference for students and teenagers, life-changing career talks for the young professionals, empowering entrepreneurship talks for those thinking of starting their own businesses, retirement topics for those who wish to learn how to be “happy retirees,” and so much more! The Kerygma Conference definitely has something for everyone!6. Get to party at MOA Arena.Two “Grand Feasts” at the Mall of Asia Arena will mark the last day of the Kerygma Conference. There will be a Holy Mass and plenary talks by Bo Sanchez and Alvin Barcelona, plus powerful worship.  For non-conference attendees, tickets will be available at www.smtickets.com (note: these will only be available by the first week of November).So we invite you with open arms and open hearts — it’s never too late to live an empowered life. Come home to healing, come home to inspiration and come home to the One who gave it all… come to the “Kerygma Conference 2015: Coming Home” and start to live a blessed and fantastic life.About Kerygma ConferenceSomewhere in the midst of one’s busy life is the need to continuously find ways to be inspired and seek growth, happiness, and purpose. This is why the Kerygma Conference was conceived—to be a venue of hope and inspiration so that more people will feel empowered in all aspects of their lives.Kerygma Conference, the biggest inspirational event in the country founded by lay preacher and best-selling author Bo Sanchez, is set to have another run in Metro Manila on November 19-22, 2015. A crowd of around 20,000 people is expected to gather at the conference, which will be held at SMX Convention Center and SM Mall of Asia Arena.This year, Kerygma Conference is 9 “years old”, and event just keeps getting better, bigger and filled with grace, touching many lives and bringing more souls closer to God.