How To Travel Without Leaving Your Favourite TV Shows BehindI recently got home from a 2-week camping trip with my family – the wife and my two young boys – and the one thing that made the downtime better, even with the bad weather we caught at the beginning of our trip, was being able to kick back and catch up on our favourite TV shows anywhere.Now I’m the first to say I don’t want my kids sitting in front of the TV for hours on end. But I’m quite happy for them to be entertained when I need a break and they also complement their couch time with outdoor play time.On this trip, I was impressed with the neat features of the DISH Anywhere and Hopper GO DVR. Most importantly, the boys had a real blast, and they could finally watch their favourite Netflix shows and cartoons on the go without a problem. Oh, and we had a brilliant time camping too.Dish Anywhere and Hopper GoAlthough driving 200 miles to the camp site and back was a real pain, listening to some of our favourite shows in the car (with the boys watching in the backseat) made things a lot easier. I was pleasantly surprised from the start by how well the new DVR worked along with the DISH Anywhere service.DISH Anywhere is an online service that allows DISH customers to log in and watch their favourite shows free of charge. You can get anything from TNT to HBO – we also got a few premium channels we subscribed to at home – and even watched on mobile devices with the Hopper Go DVR. The latter was one of the features our boys loved the most, since they could watch their shows on the tablet and laptop.The Hopper GO portable DVR also made our trip a lot easier. With a huge amount of storage for offline viewing and pretty fast performance, I was impressed how easily it was to watch our regular shows even in the most remote areas during our camping vacation.There’s also the Hopper 3 DVR device, which continues in DISH’s reputation for offering reliable over-the-air TV. Set up at home, our Hopper 3 has a bunch of great features, including the ability to record 16 shows at once. In a family of 4, that advantage and the speedy performance are a real godsend. Access at the Camp SiteBefore DISH, going camping used to be challenging for my boys. They had a hard time accessing any of their favourite shows on Netflix, and the internet connection offered by our previous satellite internet provider was awful. Needless to say, last year I knew a change had to be made. Fortunately, DISH Anywhere and Hopper GO became the answer to all our problems.This year, with Hopper GO and DISH Anywhere everything seemed to change. From the start, Hopper’s fast new 1.3Ghz processor seemed to be working like clockwork. There were no delays in accessing the DISH account, and the signal was great too.DISH Anywhere was really easy to use, allowing us to set up all our favourite shows to run on the tablet and laptop. For once, there were no more quarrels and snappy remarks between my two boys, as they each had their own device available to watch their favourite shows – either live or recorded.Recording shows was also a piece of cake. Even though Hopper GO is a portable DVR, its 64 GB of storage was more than a match for my boys’ keen interest in recording the 7-8 different shows they wanted to watch in the evening, after busy days spent doing sports and hiking. Even my wife downloaded a couple of her regular soap operas, as she wanted to keep up to date with the action.5 Kid-Friendly Camping Recipes Your Family Will LoveWe all know how important it is for families to share meal times together. But in our hectic lifestyles and with juggling schedules it can be tricky to accomplish.That is why my family loves camping. It offers ample opportunity to unplug, play outside and reconnect with each other and with nature. And one of our family’s favourite camping activities is cooking. Kids are eager to help prepare their food, and get to learn more about what they are eating. This truly is a precious bonding opportunity for our family.While camping, you want your meals to be simple, healthy, and tasty.However, kids are funny little creatures with very distinct tastes and preferences - a common hurdle for many parents. Perhaps they’re picky and have strong unyielding opinions which make it hard to create dishes that will satisfy the whole family.I’ve got the answer.These 5 kid-friendly camping recipes will help you to plan your clan’s next great outdoor adventure, and be simple enough for little hands to get involved1. Low Country Boil PacketsMy kids like things to be individualized and having their own packet of goodies. What is so great about this meal is that is so simple and healthy. The preparation steps are basic enough that kids can easily participate, which will make them more likely to eat it. But best of all, they can eat it with their fingers! Who doesn’t like delicious finger food? This is the recipe we used on our last camping trip, but it can be adapted to your group’s taste.8 Ways to Keep Your Kids Safe Online & Devices Secure, While TravellingWhether travelling or at home, as parents we always want to protect our kids. With technology so easily accessible the task of protection is getting harder.To be fair, today’s technology is amazing and I’d find it hard to live without. In fact, travel has never been easier thanks to technological advances and smaller portable devices.Parents can find their way around new destinations, read reviews, purchases tickets, communicate with loved ones at home, and even work with the push of a button. Kids are now easily entertained as well as educated anywhere, anytime. Long flights, road trips, extended dining experiences, no problem. It is remarkable that children as young as toddlers can work electronic devices like a pro, but it also poses new dilemmas for parents.We have the world at our fingertips, but how do we protect our kids from the dangers that come with that exposure? I’ve recently tried using Norton by Symantec to help keep our kids safe online, as well as protect our family’s devices while travelling.1. Web SupervisionHere’s a common situation: you hand your child a device to enjoy kid-oriented videos on the web. At first they are happily watching their favourite kiddy program, then you suddenly realise they have clicked their way to exceptionally graphic and inappropriate content. My daughter was watching funny baby videos and somehow it led her to a video of a live birth! True story, and unfortunately, unless you are watching over their shoulder constantly, you will not be able to catch them all. Fortunately, Norton provides ways to block various sites and content while also providing information on which sites your kids are spending most of their time.Thought Learning To Scuba Dive Was Too Hard?I grew up in the ocean, body boarding at every opportunity - from popular urban beaches in Perth, Australia to the famous big waves of Margaret River.I’ve always felt at home in the ocean – swimming, surfing and snorkelling.But there was one thing that intimidated me: scuba diving.It seemed so complex, requiring a lot of time, energy and money to learn. But there was a certain lure about it… breathing underwater, discovering colourful sea life and exploring a new world.As our 1-year #motherofallroadtrips around the US and Canada wrapped up and we stopped on Mexico’s Caribbean coast for a couple months, I found the available time I was looking for. And I was determined to nail this elusive bucket list item – learn how to scuba dive.Online research lead me to PADI’s Discover Scuba Diving (DSD) 1-day program. A quick, easy-to-learn introduction to scuba diving, with no experience or commitment required. So before I had a chance to chicken out, I booked the program at Scuba Playa in Playa Del Carmen.What’s PADI?When it comes to an activity like scuba diving, you want to ensure the instructor knows what they’re doing – your life is in their hands. So I recommend choosing a PADI-certified instructor. PADI (Professional Association of Diving Instructors) is the world’s leading scuba diver training organisation with over 6300 dive centres and resorts around the world. So there’s a very good chance you’ll find one nearby or in an exotic location you’re travelling to.What Happens On The DayWhen I arrived at the dive shop for an early start at 8am, I met the friendly staff and got started with the required paperwork. There were a few liability waivers and checklists to fill in. Sitting around a table, my instructor, Vicky, and 3 others in our group ran through basic concepts like safety guidelines, how to breathe, how and when to equalise ear pressure, how to use the buoyancy control device (BCD), various hand signals, and how to read the air gauge.In the meantime, I was sized up and a wetsuit was picked out for me along with an appropriate weight belt. After donning the very sexy wetsuit, we carried our gear (flippers, mask, snorkel, BCD) to a swimming pool about 40 metres away (the air tanks were already there, don’t worry!). Here I got my first taste of breathing underwater. The pool wasn’t particularly deep and Vicky guided me every step of the way so I knew what to expect. By this point I realised scuba diving wasn’t as hard as I thought it would be.After what felt like half an hour in the pool I had all the basics down pat. There was just enough time to grab a bite to eat at a nearby caf?, before we regrouped at the dive shop for further instructions. Together we walked to the beach (less than 1 block away) where a boat was waiting for us.This is where it started to feel a lot more real. The conditions were perfect that day – warm weather, clear water, light winds and no waves. Excitement was growing.The first dive location was only about 5 minutes away. Here, one of the boat staff helped me get the BCD on and attach the air tank. Once the equipment was carefully checked each member of our grouped edged onto the side of the boat and flipped back into the refreshing water.A buoy marked a rope that descended into the transparent turquoise water about 10 metres below. One by one, with Vicky's help, we edged under the water descending slowly, holding onto the rope. At this point I felt it hard to believe that I was already in the open ocean, breathing underwater – literally just a couple hours prior I was walking through the dive shop doors for the first time, a complete scuba newbie. And now I was floating weightlessly, looking up from the ocean floor, watching sun beams dance through the water – simply surreal.The first reef was beautiful. The dive instructor was attentive the whole time ensuring each participant was comfortable, relaxed and having a great time. I couldn’t fault the experience. We swam through colourful fish, hovered above coral of all shapes and sizes, and just soaked up the relaxing underwater ambiance. It’s one of those experiences that is hard to fully explain unless you’ve done it yourself.Before ascending, Vicky inflated a portable mini orange buoy so we could move upwards at a slow pace, careful to equalise air pressure along the way. The boat was waiting on the surface, and helped me to pull the scuba gear aboard while I climbed the ladder. With everyone back on board, and broad smiles all round, the boat roared to life and carried us to another nearby reef.We repeated the process, and this second dive felt even easier – I was getting the hang of it! With a newfound confidence I was able to enjoy the magical scenery all the more. This reef was even more stunning than the first and we swam past a large school of golden, glittering fish and a friendly stingray. 40 minutes flew by and before I knew it we were back on the surface, climbing into the boat.I felt an overwhelming sense of accomplishment as we returned to shore. But I was also a little miffed at myself for putting this experience off for so long. Back at the dive shop, I returned the scuba gear and got dressed, and gave a sincere thanks to the Scuba Playa team. They made the whole experience seamless and thoroughly enjoyable.Now I’m HookedThe scuba bug has firmly bitten. I’m already planning my next scuba dive – going for an Open Water Diver certification (OWD). And once my daughter turns 8, I’ll give her a taste of scuba diving with the Bubblemaker course.Expert tip: If you fall in love with scuba diving and want to spend extended time at sea, a liveaboard is one way to easily access dive sites without hassle.Need More Inspiration?I’ve followed Justin from Art of Scuba Diving for a while and admired his goal of diving at the top 100 sites around the world. Now that I know how addictive scuba diving is, I’m eyeballing some of the gorgeous locations he’s been to and adding those to my growing bucket list of destinations around the world.The Bottom LineI’m so glad I finally took the plunge and tried scuba diving (pun intended). It wasn’t as hard as I expected and the Discover Scuba Diving (DSD) program was the perfect introduction.Keep in mind, DSD is not a scuba certification course – it’s a taster. But next on the menu, becoming fully certified with the 2-day Open Water Diver course so I can continue to scuba dive anywhere in the world.Have you been scuba diving? Share your experiences in the comments below.What Kind Of European Bus Tour Are You? (PLUS Your Chance To Win $10,000 Europe Tour)There are so many ways to get around Europe. We’ve driven through Italy, France and Spain. We’ve traversed the continent by train. What we haven’t done is a bus tour.I probably should get around to that.So when researching bus tours I had a fun idea. What bus tour am I… and which one are you?Share your answer in the comments below!I want to be romancedExample: A Taste of Italy or Highlights of FranceYou are ready for a romantic journey with your loved one. Who knows what will happen… maybe even a proposal? What better way to do that than seeing the cities made for love? From the unbridled passion of Rome to the perpetual elegance of Paris. Don’t forget to indulge in a little history (and pasta) while in Italy. Or freshly baked bread and art galleries in Paris.I want old stuff (history)Example: A Taste of GreeceSometimes you just want to see something old. Something meaningful. Something majestic. And there’s no doubt that Greece has been around a long time. From the ancient city of Athens featuring temples to gods, to the tomb of Agamemnon, the ancient King of Mycenae who was murdered by his wife Clytemnestra after the Battle of Troy. If fascinating history flicks your switch then look no further than Greece.I want landscapes and natureExample: Great Britain Tour – England, Wales, ScotlandThis person is in love with nature and wants to see rugged mountains, green rolling hills, white sandy beaches and some of the world’s best natural reserves altogether. For that desire, nothing beats the old country. As a bonus, Beatles fans will want to stop in Liverpool and theatre lovers can’t go past Stratford-Upon-Avon. Don’t forget a hearty serving of classic fish and chips, and beer to wash it down.I want to see little green men & rainbows (without taking drugs)Example: Irish ExplorerYou have a love of leprechauns, do you? Well it’s off to Ireland with you. The emerald isle is as green and beautiful as you can imagine. I recommend avoiding blood pudding (don’t ask what’s in it!), but encourage you to take on the noble quest for the legendary pot of the gold at the end of the rainbow. Perhaps it’s just a Guinness beer or four-leaf clover. But if it is real gold, save me a little.I want to eat all dayExample: Taste of Eastern Europe – Munich, Vienna, PragueIf food is all you can think about, then head to Eastern Europe. You won’t be disappointed with Vienna’s schnitzel or Munich’s pretzels. You’ll be spoilt for choice in Prague with an abundance Europe’s most delicious street food. And if you haven’t burst before Bratislava, indulge in some of Europe’s finest beers.I want to see it allExample: Europe Taster – UK, Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, France, BelgiumThis person only has a limited amount of time in Europe and wants to see it all. They are ok with a day in each place, because they are after the feel of the destination rather than an in-depth exploration. They want to eat one meal in each place from pancakes in Amsterdam, to fish and chips in London and bratwurst in Germany.I don’t like busesExample: Croatia Sailing TourI hear you. You don’t want a luxurious bus tour. Road travel is not your idea of a vacation. Instead you want the wind in your hair and the waves at your feet. Sailing is for you! There are few places in the world as beautiful and ancient as Croatia. From the old walls of Dubrovnik to the most gorgeous islands in Europe. Get off the road and onto a sailboat… and just float away.Tough choice, eh?I know which one I am picking. I want to eat all day! How about you? Do you have an idea?Now for the good stuff. Let’s make this trip happen! How? Well by winning, of course. Would $10,000 be enough to take that dream European bus trip?