THE BEST TRAVEL JOBS – 50 WAYS TO MAKE MONEY WHILE TRAVELING THE WORLDYou want to work and travel? Pack your bags! Today I'll tell you how to make money while traveling! Here is the most extensive list of the best traveling jobs in the world!I have to make a confession. This blog post has been a draft for over a year now. I wanted to publish this article for so long, but I always thought I can do better. Originally this was meant to be called '20 ways to make money while traveling', however I felt, 20 isn't enough. I wanted to turn this article into a massive, valuable resource for everyone, who is looking for ways to make money and travel the world.The reason why I wrote this post is, because I owe it to my readers. People ask me all the time how they can afford to travel for a long time. My best advice: Find jobs that involve traveling. Why you ask? Let me explain...Work and travel will help you to understand different cultures. Being far away from home will give you a new perspective on how things work on the other side of the planet. But first, let me tell you a bit about me. Back in January 2010 I returned to Germany after a 14 months trip around the world. It took me only a couple days until I knew that there was no way I'd go back to the cubicle and work again from 9-5. If you travel long enough, your priorities will change.Fast forward, I've been living abroad for more than seven years now. I was able to finance my lifestyle with different travel jobs on the road. While I was traveling, I met so many other people who were doing exactly the same: living an independent lifestyle and pursuing their dream of traveling forever. They had creative ideas to make money while traveling. These people became friends, they gave me a ton of inspiration and helped me to write this article for you.How to make money while traveling?My dear reader, stranger, friend, I'm thrilled you're reading this right now! This blog post is for you. I want to help you to find jobs that allow you to travel! I want to give you plenty of inspiration and ideas on how to make money on the road. One piece of advice upfront: Create a list with all your skills, talents, interests, hobbies, every kind of knowledge you have. Then go through this list and check what things you can combine with travel, and how you could possibly turn this into a business. Needless to say, it's easier to make money with something that you truly love to do. Ready to get inspired? I hope the following 50 travel job ideas will give you some new perspective! I divided all jobs in 2 sections: Work AbroadWork Online (location independent)Let's get started!WORK ABROADNot everyone is comfortable to travel and find jobs on the road. If you still need the safety of having a permanent job, but you're craving for a life in a different country, then working abroad in a full-time employment position might be the best for you. Sometimes these full-time employment jobs include benefits such as visas, paid flights and often accommodation. A few of the jobs below are freelance gigs.Here are my top tips for careers that involve traveling.01. Teach English Abroad If you're not a fluent English speaker, skip to the next one. Teaching English abroad is one of the most common ways to earn money and dig into a completely different culture. There are job opportunities almost everywhere, many companies will pay your flights and apartment. South Korea and Japan are well paid countries for English teachers. My friend Audrey wrote an excellent guide on how she saved US$17,000 teaching in South Korea for one year.02. Work in Hostels and Hotels Many hostels, hotels and resorts are looking for staff, either for short time (during high season) or long-term. Jobs vary from reception staff, house keeping, driver for airport pick-ups, etc. Some of these jobs are paid, others are on a voluntary basis. Work in exchange for a free bed and food is quite common. Not ideal if you want to earn money, but at least a way to save money for travel.Don't pick a job with great vacation time. Pick one that doesn't need escaping from.03. Scuba Diving Instructor If you love diving, you should consider to get a scuba certification! There are incredible places in the world for scuba diving, like Mexico, Maldives, Honduras, Philippines, Hawaii, Egypt and many more where you could apply for scuba diving jobs! Give travelers diving lessons and enjoy a laid-back life by the sea, including free dives. Not too bad, huh?04. Cruise Ship Jobs One of the better jobs for people who like to travel: Work on a ship. A cruise ship is like a massive floating hotel in the sea, with all kinds of entertaining facilities. There are plenty of different jobs on a cruise ship: bartender, shop staff, receptionist, chef, casino staff, DJ, hair stylist, massage therapist, nurse and many more. The list of possible cruise line jobs is endless. Salaries vary between $800-$8000 per month.  Working on a cruise ship is one of the most popular careers that allow you to travel. Food and lodging is provided, you have no expenses during that time. Plus, you get paid to travel to some of the most beautiful places on earth.05. Agricultural and Farming Jobs If you love working outdoors, care for the environment and don't mind getting your hands a little bit dirty, look for agricultural jobs. It's also a great way to escape the big cities and live in rural areas, far off the tourist tracks.06. Flight Attendant Get paid to travel! Airline jobs like cabin crew are one of the jobs that involve travel, plus it comes with generous perks, like 90% discounted flights, cheaper fares for family members and great hotel discounts.  You don't need a doctor's degree to get the job, but it helps to speak at least another language. Dress up in business attire when going to a job interview and make sure to know the key facts about the airline you're applying at.If you're creative, skilled in Photoshop, Illustrator etc. and you have a good eye for design and typography, then you should offer your services online. Whether you're a professional designer or a self-taught illustrator, there are numerous job websites for any skill level.  You could design websites, banners, infographics, logos, business cards or just simple graphics for social media. The image on the left is a typical visual for Pinterest. Believe it or not, there is a huge demand for people who can create some pretty visuals for social media. 27. Website Developer / Programmer You don't need to be a programmer to build a professional looking website. Thanks to platforms like Jimdo and Wordpress it's nowadays super easy to create a website without having any programming skills. So why would someone hire you then, if it's that simple? Because it takes time – plus many people don't know how easy it is.  Start with the hotels and hostels you're staying at. If they have a terrible website, offer them to build a new page, either for money or demand a free stay for the time it takes you to build the site. Alternatively, if you're a skilled programmer or web developer, look online for freelance jobs. There are plenty. Building websites is one of the best ways to make money online. It's well paid and the demand is enormous.  28. Translator If you can write and speak more than one language fluently, you could look for translating jobs. Spanish, Chinese, French and Japanese are very popular right now. Even if you speak another language than the ones I just listed, check out the links below, you might find a translation job for the languages you speak.      29. Social Media Manager Social media is heavily time consuming, and most companies do not have the time to keep up with it. It's pretty much a full-time job! I can second that. Even just as a blogger, I could spend the whole day just managing my Facebook, Instagram, and all the other accounts. If you're a social media butterfly, work for companies and help them to run their social media accounts.30. Writer & Editor You're good at expressing yourself in words? You love to tell stories and have a great writing style? There are tons of opportunities to get a paid writing gig. It helps if you already have a blog where you published some of your stories. I got paid writing gigs through my blog, for BBC Travel and other magazines. Alternatively, you could also work for companies and get paid for writing blog posts, newletters, brochures, press releases, ebooks, copywriting, or just editing. There are plenty of freelance writing gigs, check out the resources below... 31. SEO Expert What is an SEO expert? Basically, you help companies and clients to rank better in Google search results. But how do you become an SEO expert? Excellent question. Google itself provides a free SEO Starter Guide, but also the MOZ Beginners Guide to SEO is brilliant and will help you to learn the basic skills. After that, it's learning by doing and trying different techniques until you see results. Once you feel confident with your skills, it's time to hunt for an SEO freelance gig.  32. Virtual Assistant Nowadays, plenty of busy digital nomads and online entrepreneurs hire VA's (virtual assistants). A virtual assistant is manages daily tasks, such as replying to emails, scheduling appointments, research, etc. If you think you can be the perfect virtual secretary, go for it!33. Blogger How to make money blogging?  Let's make one thing clear: Making money as a blogger takes time. A lot of time. Blogging is a full-time job, and in my case I didn't earn any money within the first six months.Nowadays I'm earning enough from this blog, but it was a long way to get there. You need to be dedicated, be different than others, and on top you should write epic, useful and entertaining content. The quick manual: Set up a blog with Jimdo (like I did – it's super easy because you don't need any knowledge of programming) and start writing about the things you're passionate about. In order to get plenty of traffic, you need to network with the top influential people in your niche and promote your articles on social media. More tips and resources below. Don't give up, it takes time. Once your blog gains an audience, you can start monetizing your site with advertising, affiliates and brand partnerships. 34. Video Editor / Sell your videos Most people know how to use a camera and how to record some videos. But also most of them aren't able to put the footage into a well curated video later. If you have some decent video editing skills, you can easily find some freelance jobs online. If you already created some awesome travel videos yourself, go ahead and sell your videos.35. Website and App Tester Make quick money by testing websites, apps, or interactive content. The payment is between $3-15 per test and takes usually from a couple minutes up to a half an hour. The longer the test, the more you get paid. All you need is a software to record your screen, a good microphone and the ability to speak fluent English. 36. Write an eBook You have extensive knowledge about something and you can provide useful advice? Or you love writing stories to entertain people? You should consider writing an eBook. Needless to say, the demand for info material is huge, making money by selling a "how-to guide" is probably easier than selling a novel. Books that help people to achieve something are selling the best.  Making money with an eBook is easy, because it comes with low investment costs. Once written, it can provide a passive income for a period of time. You can literally start writing now, or even outsource the writing and the research. What are you waiting for? 37. Sell your photos You have tons of pictures from your travels? Why not try to sell them? But forget the major stock image sites, they only pay cents for your photss. The websites below offer a higher payment, on some of them you can even set your own rates. This is a great read btw, about to selling photos online: How I Made $1,602.50 With 500px In Just A Few Weeks.38. Social Media Influencer A friend told me some years ago "if you spend all day on Facebook, you should get paid for it..." Well, he was actually not that wrong. Nowadays, I'm making a couple hundred bucks a month, from promoting campaigns on my social media profiles.  Making money online through social media is certainly possible. Needless to say, you need a specific niche and thousands of engaged followers. If you're a social butterfly, sign up for the following websites that connect influencers with brands.39. Paid Surveys Make money by filling out surveys. Not necessarily a way to get rich, more like a plan to make some extra cash. There are plenty of survey websites, but only a few of them are trustworthy. Use a new email address if you plan on doing surveys, as you might get tons of spam emails afterwards.40. Create an Online Course  You have some incredible skills and can teach people something useful? Become an instructor and create a video course, possibly on Udemy. My friend Jasper is making money online from his helpful courses on Udemy. You can create an online course literally everywhere, you just need a laptop, a mic and a camera. Once it's set up, it can be a source of passive income, for a long long time. 41. Vlogger / Youtuber You're a confident person, love recording yourself and have something interesting to say? Or you have a cute pet that is so entertaining and you can't stop filming it? Or maybe you have incredible skills and love to create tutorial videos that help people? You should become a Vlogger!! YouTube is the biggest platform for Vloggers with over one billion users. Your videos can be about anything, as long as your content is unique and not boring. Make sure to offer something valuable to your followers to keep them coming back. Make them laugh, teach them something or inspire them.  Once you get popular, you can monetize your videos with ads and earn about $1-10 per 1000 views. My dear friend Anja started her YouTube channel a bit over a year ago. She's teaching people how to learn German in a hilarious way. Fast forward, Anja has more than 100,000 subscribers and is by now making a living from her videos, through ads and donations from her followers. 42. Sell your Art You're an artist or designer? You create beautiful things and want to make a living from it? Ever considered to sell your stuff online? There are hundreds of websites where you can showcase your art and designs to a wider audience and sell it. 43. Sell T-Shirts online Why only sell art if you can print your artwork on T-Shirts? The cool thing about selling T-Shirts online is that it's a business that anyone can do without upfront investment. A good friend of mine is making over $5000 a month from selling his T-Shirts online. You don't need to be a designer, the best-selling designs are often just simple, funny or inspiring quotes.  Teespring.com is another great website, based on crowdfunding. You're responsible for promoting your shirts. The easiest way to market your shirts would be through targeted Facebook ads. Teespring offers some great videos that provide valuable insight on how to sell T-Shirts successfully on their platform.  44. Voice Overs You love performing and have an interesting and unique voice? Doing voice overs is a fun job that can be done anywhere. You could do voice overs for audio books, documentaries, online courses or training videos, or even for bigger productions like TV, radio commercials, video games and more.45. Affiliate Marketing Affiliate Marketing is one of the most difficult ways to make money, but also one of the best. Once set up, it generates passive income. You'll earn money online, while you sleep. But what exactly is Affiliate Marketing? You promote someone's product and receive a commission, every time someone buys the product through your recommendation. Needless to say, you should only promote products you love. If you don't know the product, how can you convince someone else to buy it? You don't have to be a blogger to do Affiliate Marketing, though it definitely helps if you have a specific niche and recommend relevant products to your readers. If you don't own a blog, you can share affiliate links on social media (Facebook, Pinterest, Youtube), in email newsletters, etc. I highly recommend this free Step by Step Guide by Neil Patel to learn about Affiliate Marketing, but also this book called Develop An Online Business Empire from Selling Other Peoples Products. 46. Consulting and Tutoring  Another great example of a job that can be done anywhere, and a great way to monetize your expertise. I'm pretty sure you have some awesome skills, that might be useful to someone else.  Before I started my blog, I taught German on Skype to students from all over the world. How did I find clients? I just set up a free ad on Craigslist and offered my services. Nowadays, there are plenty of sites where teachers and tutors can sign up and offer consulting and lessons to students. No matter if you teach English, algebra, singing, SEO, etc... Just sign up, set your rate per hour and give lessons via Skype to your students.  47. Dropshipping Dropshipping can be a super lucrative way to make money online. Basically you're selling products online as a middle man, without ever getting in contact with the goods. The positive thing is, you're not buying a large amount of goods yourself – instead you partner up with a company and sell their products on your website. Whenever someone orders a product from your online shop, you pass the order on to your supplier, who will ship directly to your customer. Your profit is the difference between your product price and the supplier's price. In order to make huge profits from this, you need to study the market extensively, find niche items with high profit margins, and promote these products to the right people.  My friend Johnny FD is doing dropshipping for the past years and publishing every month his detailed income reports. He's running his dropshipping business from anywhere, all he needs is a laptop! 48. Create and sell an app Ever thought of creating and selling an app? The timing couldn't be any better, everyone has a smart phone and people are buying apps more than ever! Needless to say, you need some tech skills and a good feel for the market. If you have a brilliant idea, do it!49. Finance Professional You have a background in business management, finance or accounting? Do some freelancing! You could help others with their tax declarations and offer advice for accounting issues. Most people hate dealing with this stuff, give them a helping hand in exchange for money. 50. Transcriptionist The job of a transcriptionist is one of the easier jobs you can do with a laptop and a decent internet connection. Basically, you listen to audio files and simply convert the talk into a written document. This can be recorded interviews, but also recordings in the medical or legal field. If you type fast, you should consider this job!I hope you enjoyed this list and got loads of new ideas. If you have more great travel jobs in mind that help people make money while traveling, please leave them in the comments! I'd love to hear more ideas! And if you end up living abroad, please send me a postcard!