WANDERING THE HOODOOS AND WRITING ON STONEI used to love it as a kid, that’s all I really remember of this place.  My childhood almost seems so distant these days that I’m not really sure what really happened and what was part of my elaborate imagination.  I’m sure I used to come here through.  I have family that lives right down the Milk River.  We used to come up to Writing-on-Stone Provincial Park with inner tubes and then float down the river back towards their house.  We used to talk about the water snakes that swam through here, see if we could freak out my sister or brother.  I have a vague memory of climbing up through the sandstone hoodoos too; of finally reaching the top and dangling my feet over the edge and watching the view, felling like I’d conquered the world.I used to love coming down to Southern Alberta as a kid.  It felt so far away from home and exotic.  My hometown is settled in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, along rivers that carve through Tamarac forests.  Here, just outside of the town of Milk River, this hoodoo-dotted coolie is the only break in an otherwise flat prairie landscape that runs from Manitoba all the way to the edge of the mountains.  In these great sandstone formations, rattlesnakes tremor and sharp thistle protects the edges of the path.  For a child, Writing-on-Stone Provincial Park feels like a giant playground, and in many ways it is.Today, I’m back here again, and again reminded of what makes Alberta such a brilliant place to travel: its diversity.  I left the edge of the snow-covered Rocky Mountains in the morning, and by midday I’m here in the dry heat of the desert and prairies looking down on a valley of still water and stone figures.Though the place doesn’t look as familiar as I expected it, I set off the same way I must have a kid.  I search out the tallest pillar of sand and climb to the top of it in search of a view, or if nothing else the feeling that I’m on the top of the world.  I follow the twists and turns of the sandstone sculptures, meandering myself without fear of losing “the path”.I walk down to the stone carvings that give this place its name.  Blocked by a barricade of steel wire, there are carvings in the rock depicting a battle that once must have taken place down here on the flats.  Indigenous people have occupied the lands in this region for over 11,000 years, and this petroglyph must have been here for a significant part of that time.As if the barrier of steel protecting the art wasn’t enough, I hear a rattlesnake start to warn its presence.  I step back slowly but curiously and see it on the path.  Of course, with all the luck of an unprepared photographer, I’ve only brought my wide angle lens, and wouldn’t dare get close to this meter-long snake.  I turn, and climb back up through the valley of hoodoos to my car and drive away.Writing on Stone Provincial Park has changed a lot since I was a kid.  It’s more regulated, slightly more monitored, there’s a big new visitor’s center, and there might even be more tourists than there were before.  However, the beauty of this part of Alberta is that it’s so far off the beaten path that only the committed travellers really make it out here.  It will never overflow with tourists, and visitors will always be made feel like kids wandering through the playground of hoodoos in nature’s jungle gym.THE LOVE OF BEING SCARED: NAVIGATING LIFE’S TRICKY PATHSThe Love of Being Scared: Navigating Life’s Tricky PathsI know I’m going back to South America, so I can’t really explain what’s going through my head as I sit here on myThe impressive volcanoes to the east at sunsetcomputer at the airport waiting for my flight back to Canada. Part of me is excited.  I’ll kiss the soil as soon as I set foot on the silky smooth soil of my home and native land. But at the same time part of me is sad. I’m ending an era of my life, the one which I spent my days exploring ancient ruins and vibrant plazas.  A life in which I spent my nights sipping exotic drinks, nibbling on strange foods, and diving head first into the local night life. All at the same time I feel scared. But unlike most people this is the part I love. I love being scared, because travel has taught when you’re scared you’re probably about to embark on something incredible.The more and more I travel or, to be honest, just live, the more I relish the idea of being scared. By being scared I don’t mean doing things that are stupid and purposefully scare you (although most that know me are probably disapointed that what is about to come is a life story and not a crazy story about how I stole a taxi in Panama). In this regard I mean taking on life challenges that seem difficult. In our lives we have many decisions to make. The majority of people chose the path that seems the easiest, disguising that thought as the “right” thing to do.I’m not a believer in fate by any stretch of the imagination. But I do believe that gives us choices. Sometimes the decisions to these questions aren’t drastic, “I’m going to eat at McDonald’s instead of Subway,” and impact your life only the slightest. However sometimes you run into decisions that are bigger “I’m going to study English instead of Engineering,” and these options impact your life more significantly. Looking back at my life, and the way I’ve made my particular decisions has brought me to the point I am right now, sitting at the airport in Lima. But things could have turned out the same. I challenge you to think of these big decisions the way that I am about to roll out and think about your life, without regrets.I was 18 years old, a basketball player without an idea of what I wanted to do with my life. I went to university to playJumping into Lake Titicacabasketball and study kinesiology. My second year of school I had the choice to go out west and continue playing basketball or stay near my hometown and continue not knowing what to do. I stayed close to home, because it was the easiest decision (same part of the world, same girlfriend, same friends). At University I met a professor who had a love for geography, politics, and travel, because of him I decided I wanted to travel. I had the choice later of staying with a girlfriend, or traveling. I chose to travel. I had the choice to travel to anywhere. I chose Central America because for a couple of reasons, but mostly because I could get their for cheap and I wanted to learn how to surf. I ended up falling in love with the culture, language, and the history. I returned home with a purpose, to learn why Latin America is the way it is. After University ended I sat with the options of Law schools, grad schools, and jobs. I decided to throw it all away for a low paying job where I got to explore South America in depth. And today I am heading home again with my life full of options, something that kind of scares me. I’m pretty sure I’ve made my decision, more on that later.If I was to go back and change any of the decisions that I made in life, my life direction would have pointed me to a completely different place than I am right now. And to be quite honest looking back I made some seriously wrong choices. I probably should have headed west to play basketball, and I probably should have done a couple other unlisted items differently. But the truth is that because of those silly mistakes I made, I am here where I am now, and I wouldn’t change that for anything. The experiences that I’ve had along the my life’s path so far have reassured me that no matter how terrifying a decision may be it can always take me to an amazing place. From my life experiences, I’ve learned that taking the road that scares usually takes you to a rewarding place as long as you survive the journey, and even if you fail, you’ll probably have a great story to tell.HOW TO HIKE THE SKYLINE TRAILIf you’re looking for an iconic hike in the Canadian Rockies, there are few more beautiful trails than the skyline trail in Jasper National Park.  I’ve done the trail twice now: once years ago when I ran it in a day, and recently with the amazing crew at Canadian Skyline Adventures when I drank it all in a bit more in a three day hike.  Both times were incredible, and each time was a completely different experiences.This is a bit of a guide to hiking the skyline trail in Jasper.Trail LogisticsThe trail is called the skyline trail for good reason.  Of the 44 kilometers of trail, about 25 of those take hikers above the treeline.  And well the trail isn’t exactly super challenging, most of it is fairly flat aside from a couple sections, it does take you to parts of the mountains that usually require extreme hikes to get to.Logistically there are a number of different ways to hike the trail, but of those there are only three very realistic options.  One day, two day, or three day hikes.I shot this image from my sleeping bag under the stars on the skyline trail.A one day hike of the skyline trail is a challenge and should really only be attempted by extreme athletes and people with a great bit of outdoor sense.  Weather conditions on the trail can change instantly, and those hiking or running the trail in one day could easily get caught there.  You’ll have to be prepared.  My recommendation is to stay the night at Maligne Lake and then start your hike early the next day.  When I did the trail in one day, I caught the shuttle up to the trailhead at 8am starting the hike at about 9am, and I was really pressed for time.  Like I said though, if you plan on scampering the skyline trail in one day, make sure you’re fit and prepared for the worst.The two day hike is also possible, but personally I think if you’re going to take two days, you might as well take three.  If you’re going to do the two-day hike, again I’d start at Maligne Lake then hit the trailhead early and push for Curator campground which is about 20km down the trail.  The following day is an absolute slog as you’ll have to climb up to the highest point on the trail and then all the way down on the same day.  Alternatively, you could do the trail backwards starting at the lower trailhead and pushing uphill to “the Notch”, and then descending into Curator camp.The most common hike for skyline is the three day variety.  Hiking this way will give you far more time to actually enjoy the trail and not feel rushed at all.  The normal method of hiking in three days is to catch the Maligne Lake Shuttle, which you can book at the Jasper Adventure Center, and ask the driver to drop you off at the trailhead.  You’d then hike 12km to Snowbowl campsite.  The following day you’ll cross the alpine meadows to “The Notch” then descend into Tekkara campsite which is another 18km.  Your final day you’ll finish up the skyline trail with a descent to the lower trailhead where you can meet the shuttle (or have left your vehicle), or hike out an extra 5km to Jasper.Guided or Non-GuidedGuidedThe beauty of the skyline trail is that anyone can hike it.  Yes, the trail is challenging, but it’s not so extreme that it’s reserved for only the most fit.  However, if you’re hoping to really enjoy the trail, and you might not be a very experienced hiker I’d highly recommend grabbing a guide.  As I mentioned, the weather on the trail can change at the drop of the hat, and you don’t want to get caught out there unprepared.  Moreover, having a guide to help pack cooking gear and food helps immensely, and allows you to relax a bit when you get into camp rather than stressing about cooking.If you need a guide, the most reputable company in the region by far is Canadian Skyline Adventures.  They are absolute class, I promise you that.Non-GuidedIf you go non-guided you’ll have to organize everything yourself.  The things you’ll need to book campsites and pay fees with Parks Canada, book a shuttle with Jasper Adventures, and potentially rent some gear.  Loads of people hike the skyline trail in Jasper un-guided each year, but you have to be prepared.What to PackI keep mentioning that the trail conditions change constantly, but I feel it needs mention again here.  If you’re going to hike the skyline trail, you need to be prepared for anything.  I’ve compiled a bit of a list, you’ll need these things at the bare minimum.SunscreenCamping gear / shelterSleeping bag (depending on the time of year, probably a minus 7 Celsius bag)Food (bring lots of fibers and carbs)Bag for bear hang (there are ropes on the hang, so just bring something to attach to it)Water filter or tabletsStoveToilet paperRain gearLots of socksPhotos of the Skyline TrailI’ve posted a bit of a photo essay with photos from the Skyline Trail in Jasper National Park for you to see.  If you see these images and still don’t think it’s worth the hike, you don’t deserve the Rockies!DRIVING THE COWBOY TRAILAfter a rain day at the Delta Lodge at Kananaskis, I continue my journey across Alberta.  Today I’m heading south, and to parts of the province I’m really excited to explore.  Well I’ve visited places like Banff, Jasper, and Canmore hundreds of times, I can’t remember the last time I drove down the Cowboy trail to Southern Alberta.  And to be quite honest, I’m fairly sure that I’ve ever been to my end destination for today: Waterton National Park.The cowboy trail is about as iconic as anywhere in Alberta gets, though the road gets very little traffic.  Highway 40 runs along the foothills of the Rocky Mountains and offers some of the most classic Alberta views anywhere in the province.  This time of year it’s hay bales and mountains.Though the highway towards Southern Alberta offers scenes nearly all Albertans are familiar with, even the locals don’t often stroll too far down this road.  The drive is peaceful, and I coast along a couple kilometers under the speed limit taking it all in.  With each bend of the road I stumble a view, pull over to the side of the road and shoot it.  However, each turn I take offers another view even more stunning.  It’ll take me all day to photograph it all, so I push on through the towns that dot the highway.I stop in the town of Longview for some classic beef jerky, a staple on just about every Albertan’s junk food shopping list.  It’s not easy to feel like I have this part of Alberta to myself, because as a tourist, I do.  Well places like Banff and Lake Louise crawl with camera weilding foreigners, the locals here all give me a bit of strange look as I pull my Nokia Smartphone from my pocket and shoot a photo of the giant cowboy on main street.Southern Alberta has always been a favourite of mine, and I’m reminded why as I continue south along the cowboy trail.  Life seems so easy down here, so calm.  The weather, however, well generally sunny is never calm.  As I turn off the cowboy trail towards the city of Pincher Creek heavy winds push and pull my vehicle all over the road.  Dozens of giant white windmills turns quickly, but almost seem to be moving in slow motion.I stop in Pincher Creek at Tim Horton’s for a quick coffee and about 20 timbits more than I should be eating.  Today feels like such an iconic Alberta day.  It’s funny though, how tourists see just a sliver of the province.  They see places like Lake Louise and Moraine Lake as our iconic images, when in reality it’s more likely beef jerky, Tim Horton’s, and fields of hay.  But I suppose well tourists might only see a sliver of the province, even us locals rarely see the region.The road down towards Waterton twists as it enters the mountains.  Imposing clouds have begun to form on the slopes, and the massive lake appears in front of me with a road outlining the scene.  It all look surreal, like I’m staring out at a model train set.I dump my suitcase down on the floor of my room at Waterton Lakes Resort and look out at the rain now pouring down on town.  As much as I’ve explored this beautiful province, and as much as today has felt so familiar, I love that I can end my day here in some town I’ve never been, enjoying a view I’ve never seen before.  It goes to show something that the road has always taught me, no matter how close to home, there are always new things and places to discover.