How To Make A Budget Holiday Feel Like A Luxury BreakWe’ve all been on super cheap holidays when for whatever reason money’s tight when you get round to booking your trip – perhaps you’re saving for a deposit for a house, or you’ve had a trail of unexpected expenses (find out more about ways to maximise your money). Or maybe you’re a keen traveller who likes to get away regularly.Whatever the reason, cheap holidays don’t have to feel cheap. So, how can you make a budget holiday feel like a luxury break?Maximise your budgetCamping in Hokkaido, JapanIt’s important to understand your budget limitations and ensure that you get the most from your money, especially when you don’t have much to spare.Maximising your budget means checking online for the best flight and accommodation deals rather than paying rack rate – this takes time but is worth it if you can pay less for the same booking.You could also consider house sitting which allows you to stay rent-free in beautiful and luxurious homes which you otherwise wouldn’t be able to afford. Just be mindful that house sitting comes with responsibilities and is not akin to a resort or typical self-catering stay.  Choosing mostly free activities on location can also reduce your overall spend, check out some online reviews from travel bloggers who have been to your chosen destination for a thrift-focused itinerary.Travel with flight accessoriesSleeping with a Trtl Travel Pillow on a budget flightWe all know that cheap flights can often feel less than luxurious, however, there are some savvy ways to make a cheap flight feel a little less budget. Try bringing a flight pillow with you to keep your neck comfortable and a blanket to snuggle under and get cosy. Snacks and drinks always help, too.Book emergency exit seatsAnother top tip when booking a cheap flight is to look out for the emergency exit seats, some airlines allow you to pre-book them for a fee but on a lot of budget airlines they are often left empty unless the flight is fully booked. If they are empty, you can ask a flight attendant to move.Emergency exit seats have much more legroom and feel significantly more luxurious. You’ll be able to spread out and feel like you’re flying first class. Just be aware that there are certain responsibilities that go with these seats, and you must be over the age of fifteen to sit in one.Cook great local foodEating a homemade lasagne on the Isles of ScillyOne of the great things about travelling is sampling local cuisines. However, instead of splashing the cash on fancy meals out, you can still enjoy local and luxurious meals by cooking them yourself.Take a trip to a local market and talk to the vendors about the dishes they themselves cook at home, ask what the popular local ingredients are and how you can use them.Find peace and tranquillityThe best way to achieve luxury on a cheap holiday is to seek a calm and tranquil environment in which to relax. Peace and quiet don’t cost anything, it’s often the location we choose to enjoy them in that charges the fee.Next time you’re abroad, research local areas of natural beauty – whether that’s an isolated beach, a beautiful nature trail, or a peace garden in the middle of a bustling city. Sitting there, alone with your thoughts and at one with nature will feel like pure luxury.Peace and quiet are often what we go on holiday for, after all.Studying Abroad is More Feasible Than You Think – Here’s WhyA lot of people combine travelling with working. They do so to gain experience, learn new skills and cover some of their travel expenses. Usually, this approach works out really well. Yet, relatively few people think about studying abroad or whilst travelling.There is still a tendency for people to imagine that to do so would be too difficult. However, this is actually no longer the case. You just need to take the right approach to get the qualifications you need while travelling or living abroad.The tools you need to study are easy to access from anywhereRegardless of where you are, it is feasible for you to access a wide range of study aids, apps, and software.For example, if you’re learning remotely, when writing your essays you can use tools like the ones you can find on this website to help you to create a thesis statement. This can provide you with a clear focus and a strong foundation on which to build out your essay.It is possible to get a strong internet connection practically anywhereUsing the right tools when studying remotely can enable you to have a similar experience to that of studying at home or in a foreign classroom. All you need is a reliable internet connection.If you plan to do a lot of your studying online, it is also wise to purchase a good mobile data plan. You can consider buying a pay as you go plan at the destination, or adding a bolt on to your current package. That way you will not be too reliant on public Wi-Fi or other networks that may be slow because so many people are using them.Distance learning degrees are now widely availableDegrees secured through remote learning are increasingly seen as being of equal value to those attained from traditional bricks and mortar study institutions. Universities around the world now offer distance learning – here is a list of some that could be suitable for you.Many universities offer courses in more than one languageIt is becoming increasingly common for learning institutions to offer foreign students the opportunity to study in their native language. Some languages are more widely catered for than others. The fact that around 20% of the earth’s population now speaks English well is making it a popular choice for universities who want to attract more foreign students.It is easy to find affordable places to liveThe overall cost is one of the main things that stops a lot of people from attending university. Many can pull together enough cash to cover the course fees. But, they still can’t afford to go because they cannot find the money they need to finance accommodation and living expenses.Fortunately, there are still parts of the world where the cost of living is low. That opens up the chance for students to stay there and spend a few years exploring the country while studying. This article tells you about 10 great study destinations.It’s worth noting that some are on the list because they offer fee-free courses making the overall cost more affordable, others because the cost of living is so low that most students could consider financing the corse fees alongside a reduced daily spend.How To Make The Most Of Your Travel Budget By Paying Less For MoreTravel is often associated with a sense of freedom, yet this feeling of freedom can be quickly pulled from under us if we don’t have enough money to fuel our travel adventures.  There are some great way to save money in order to travel the world, yet there are also things you can do with regard to the trips you take that will help save a small fortune – or at least help you make the most of your travel budget.Take an exotic location like the Caribbean, or Europe’s Mediterranean coast; finding affordable deals to visit these five star locations can be a challenge. So think outside the box when searching for deals online. Websites that specialise in finding discounted package deals like voyage-prive.co.uk are well worth signing up to when you start searching for flights and accommodation.In addition to reducing these main travel costs there are several things you can do in the destination itself, such as making a packed lunch rather than eating out, getting off peak travel tickets (usually after 9am) rather than peak tickets that sometimes double in price, and look for discount cards.  For instance, here in England there’s an app called tastecard that offers 50% or 2 for 1 deals at a variety of restaurants.Opt for unusual accommodation optionsA further large expense when travelling is accommodation; as even in countries that are known for being “cheap” $10 a day can mount up when travelling long-term.  Then, when you consider a basic hotel room in London is likely to be well in excess of $100, this is an expense that can spiral out of control.AirBnB is a great option as it tends to offer much better value than hotels and B&Bs, though if you’re on a real budget, you might want to consider partaking in a workaway where you volunteer for a few hours a day in exchange for free accomodation and food.If you’re an adventurous sort you might be interested becoming a house and pet sitter to secure free accommodation when you travel. In 2011 I joined TrustedHousesitters, created a profile and began applying for my first house sitting stay. Unfamiliar with the concept I was a little unsure how to approach the task of responding to home owners who had shown interest in my profile.A week after I sent my first application I received a reply from a family in Costa Rica. They were visiting relatives in the USA and required house and pet care for a period of six weeks. I was able to secure free accommodation for the duration of my stay in exchange for looking after a cat and a rabbit. A great offer for a traveller keen to reduce their spend on accommodation.Get creative when booking your flightsFlights can take a large chunk of money from your travel fund, but, if you can be flexible with flight dates then searching for cheap flights via comparison websites such as Skyscanner or Momondo which compare hundreds of flights by several airlines to present the cheapest deals for the dates and destinations you are looking for; this can save a heap of cash!Something else to consider is that you can often save money by being flexible with the departure and arrival airports; as an example, if you’re travelling from Las Vegas, Nevada to London, England – you might pay an extra $400 with a ticket from Las Vegas rather than San Diego, which is just a few hours drive away.Similarly, in London for instance, there are a number of airports you could travel into – so don’t be set on one specific airport unless there’s a need to be.  In London, the main airport is London Heathrow, however, there’s also London Gatwick, London Stansted, London Luton and London City.Heathrow and City are most convenient, but Gatwick, Stansted and Luton are all just a 30-45 minute train ride away from the centre of London.  Then, on a more extreme level, you could even consider looking at flights to the whole of England; for let’s say you flew into Manchester, that’s only two hours away by train – yet if you were saving a few hundred dollars, it might be worth it.Essentially, the more flexible you can be in terms of flights the cheaper they will be.Think you’ve got some tips that will help travellers make the most of their budget? Leave your suggestions in the comments below.Explore More and Spend Less with These Simple Travel HacksWith much of 2018 already visible in the rear-view mirror I’ve started to contemplate my travel itinerary for 2019.In the last nine months I’ve visited Florida to swim with manatees, watched the sun rise over the Las Vegas strip, explored the Baltic Sea aboard a Princess Cruise, eaten the most incredible breakfast in Seattle’s hip Capitol Hill district, and hiked to a lost lake in Whistler, BC.It’s been epic, but I’m already craving my next big adventure.In just a few weeks I’m flying to Japan to spend a week hiking in Hokkaido’s rugged mountains (if you’re not already follow me on Instagram to watch daily updates from my trip), but on my return I’ll be making plans for my first trip of 2019.I’m still not sure where to go! Suggestions in the comments please people!Now I know what you’re all thinking, has she inherited a load of cash and spent it all on travel? The answer, is no. Travel doesn’t have to cost to the earth, and you don’t have to fly half way around the world to find adventure.Consider yourself a frugal adventure traveller? Looking for 2019 travel bucket list inspiration?Here’s my guide to booking cheap travel to amazing destinations that give you the most bang for your buck.LONG HAUL TO ASIA FOR LESS THAN £1000Yes, we all know that Asia offers some of the most affordable accommodation options for travellers, so it’s no surprise that this diverse continent is the top of my list.With Norwegian Airlines offering return fares to Singapore from as little as about £320 you could book a cheap regional flight out to Cambodia, Laos, Vietnam, Thailand or even down into Indonesia where nightly room rates are dirt cheap and you’ll spend an average of £25 a day (or less) on meals.LONG HAUL TO THE CARIBBEAN FOR LESS THAN £1000Famously exclusive and therefore usually pretty expensive, the Caribbean has long been a favoured destination for a tropical island escape. While airfares start at around £500 return to places like Jamaica, the Dominican Republic, and St Kitts and Nevis, seasonal discounts can be found.Now I know what you’re thinking, “If I’m spending £500 – £750 on airfare that doesn’t leave much for accommodation costs.” This is true, but what if I told you that every time I’ve been to the Caribbean I’ve stayed in luxurious homes for free?Consider becoming a house and pet sitter and you could secure accommodation in places like Barbados, St Lucia, and St Kitts and Nevis for free in exchange for looking after someone’s home and pets.Sound too good to be true? Read my in depth guides below.SHORT HAUL TO EUROPEDespite being based in London I’m ashamed to say that I’ve seen relatively little of Europe, although thanks to the fact that I recently discovered a travel hack for cheap European flights that is starting to change.If you’ve never come across it before, check out Skyscanner’s anywhere travel search. Just add your departure airport and your preferred dates, and the search engine will suggest destinations for which airfares are cheaper than the average for that period.STAYCATIONING AT HOMEThere’s a lot to be said for exploring your own backyard. I’m as guilty as everyone else of lusting after trips abroad, but I’m making a conscious effort to see more of my own county, Kent, when I’m at home.Book a staycation and you’ll negate the cost of airfare completely. Not only that, but with accommodation options like Airbnb and numerous glamping sites popping up across the UK, finding the perfect place to lay your head won’t necessarily break your budget.Airbnb are also offering you the opportunity to book experiences with members of the local community so that you can really immerse yourself in the place you’re visiting.Alternatively, you could consider a house sit, homestay, or home swap if you’re on a really tight budget.How To Plan For Periods of International Travel In RetirementWe live our lives in different phases. From our youth to old age, we learn new things, have different experiences, make memories and move towards the next stage of our lives. This is the beauty of life; we are all constantly evolving. The roller coaster ride of life twists and turns unexpectedly, and without consideration.But what if you’re hoping to plan for periods of international travel in your retirement? How can you make sure you have enough money to travel and live?How to afford international travel in retirementRetirement age varies from country to country but it is widely considered to be the age at which you stop working full-time to live out the elder years of your life without the stress and strain of employment. Therefore, it is suggested that you make adequate financial plans for this phase of your life while you can, especially if you’d like to travel more in your retirement.Here are some very important factors that you need to consider when planning financially for travel in your retirement:Manage any outstanding debtsYour post-retirement life is supposed to be simple and free of stress so the last thing you’ll want is the weight of unpaid loans sitting heavy on your shoulders.If you’re planning your retirement, start the process of dealing with your unpaid debts now. It will be challenging and require some changes to the way you manage your money at the moment, but in the long term, you will reap the reward of being debt-free.Start a travel fundI know it sounds cliche, but starting a separate saving account for your planned expenditure on travel will help you manage your finances successfully once you finish work.Alongside the more general planning, you do for your retirement you can allocate specific funds for the trips you’d like to take when you finish work, without impacting the funds you’ve set aside for general living and property maintenance costs.Confirm what social security or pension contribution you’ll receive after you retireRegardless of where in the world you live, you can contact your local authority to find out what financial contribution the state will provide when you are retired. It’s really important to understand what help you are entitled to as then you can work out how much money you’ll need to save in order to maintain the standard of living you are enjoying right now.Create a budget based on your post-retirement incomeYour post-retirement income is going to be different from what you are earning right now. Keep this in mind because this may mean you need to start saving from your retirement in advance.Depending on your circumstances you may find that your expenditure decreases slightly when you stop working due to changes in lifestyle, however, it’s worth setting yourself a monthly budget to ensure that you don’t spend more than you can afford.Decide whether you want to relocate abroad in retirementThis is perhaps the most important thing that you need to figure out before you retire. A lot of people decide to stay where they are and live out the rest of their days close to the family and friends they have known for years. However, some retirees choose to relocate to a foreign destination that offers a cheaper cost of living or a more desirable climate. If you do relocate, check how this may affect your social security or pension contributions.If you are retiring this year here are some popular 2020 retirement destinations to consider. Make changes to your lifestyleLife after your retirement is going to be a bit different from your current life, there’s no getting away from this. You’ll find yourself with a lot more time on your hands and could potentially find your relationship with your husband or wife alters slightly as you will spend a lot more time with each other. You need to prepare yourself emotionally for this change because it can affect people in different ways.One of the best ways to do that is to plan your post-retirement activities and have some projects lined up to keep you busy. A period of international travel can be a great distraction from some of the less exciting elements of retirement!You’ll have time, plan how to use itMost of us spend our whole lives complaining about not having enough time to achieve what we want to. Work, family commitments, and household chores seem to take up any hours at which we’re not at work. This is not going to be an issue once you are retired.Consider how you want to spend your retirement and begin making plans to ensure you achieve your new goals; perhaps you want to travel the world by house and pet sitting, or learn a new skill while travelling abroad? Whatever you decide to do you you’ll definitely have time enough on your hands when you leave full-time employment!