Tips For Working From Home Efficiently (& How To Stay Sane!)Working from home efficiently, especially when you’re not used to it, can feel like an uphill battle that often ends in stress and a headache. Trust me, as someone who has been working from home for over a decade, sticking to a schedule and knowing what works for you isn’t easy right off the bat. In fact, it takes boundaries, willpower, and a certain mindset to pull it off day after day.In my years of being self-employed and working from home, I’ve devised routines and processes to keep my mental game on point and my focus and motivation at their highest. It took time and determination but now, when I sit down to work, I have strategies up my sleeve to be as productive as possible.So, if you find yourself working from home and can’t quite get into the groove, these top ten tips will help you work from home efficiently and keep your sanity in the process!Get Ready For the DayIf you’re anything like me, then the mental association you make between getting ready for the day and feeling productive cannot be understated.Even when I know I won’t need to leave my house to work, I go through the motions of getting myself ready for the day and into the work mindset.When working from home, make sure you go through your routine as though you’re heading to the office. Set your alarm clock for the same time each morning, make yourself a cup of coffee and breakfast, have a shower, get dressed, and then, instead of going anywhere, get ready to work. Structure Your DayIf you’re someone who has never worked from home before, then you might be feeling a little bit lost on how to structure your day.For this, I recommend setting dedicated hours for work and using to-do lists. Use a calendar to time out your day, including when you’re going to work and take breaks, and then list out all the things that you plan to tackle in a day’s work.Of course, you’ll add and subtract things from your to-do list as the day goes on, but there’s nothing as motivating as seeing the tasks you have to accomplish and then physically crossing them off as you go.Have a Dedicated Work SpaceWhile I often find myself working in any area of my house I feel the most comfortable (it switches up almost daily), having a desk or dedicated workspace makes productivity and a work-mindset so much easier to achieve.In my workspace, I have a desk, printer, files, and everything else I need as far as office supplies go. I also make sure that my workspace is clean, bright, and includes lots of mementos to keep me feeling at peace and motivated. Use a CalendarAlong with what I said above about structuring your day, I also love to use a calendar or planner to structure my weeks and months (there are a ton of free calendars online these days). I set short and long-term goals for myself to help me stay on track with my work and so I don’t miss anything or fall behind.If you’re not usually one to use calendars or day planners, I recommend you try it out for a bit and see what methods work best for you. Stay Focused and Take BreaksA tip that should be used whether you’re working from home or not, staying focused and taking designated breaks will do wonders for your productivity.To do this, make sure you get rid of any external distractions — including social media and your phone — and work hard for a predetermined period of time. Then, at the end of that time, take a real break. Read a book, meditate, stretch, exercise, play with your kids, have lunch with your partner, whatever you like.If self control is not your strong suit, there are website blockers and a StayFocused Chrome extension to help you! To keep myself on track, I also like to set timers throughout my day so I know when to start working and know when to stop.Use Music and ScentsIf you’re finding it hard to stay focused on the task at hand while working from home, then I recommend trying out different styles of music and scents.With music, I love putting on some instrumental songs that I’ve never heard before. It might sound strange, but whenever I really get into a song, my mind tends to drift in that direction, instead of the direction of work. With instrumental music, I can have background noise without getting too drawn into it.With scents, studies have shown that they play a huge role in our moods, and we can absolutely use this to our advantage. For example, lavender is well-known to be a calming scent, while mint tends to help us stay focused and alert.If you have any candles, incense, or oil-diffusers in your house, light them up as a way to keep you in the zone while working from home.Communicate With Others in the HomeChances are that if you find yourself working from home but usually work in your office, you don’t have clear cut boundaries with others in your house about your work schedule and commitments.Whether it’s your partner, kids, friends, or roommates, let everyone in your house know your work schedule and when there needs to be quiet time or you need to be left alone. Stay ActiveWhether you’re at the office or working from home, keeping your blood flowing and muscles moving can be tough. We all know that sitting for long periods isn’t good for us, so keep this in mind when you’re working from home and take designated movement breaks.To do this, get out your yoga mat and stretch, do a mid-day workout, or set a timer on your phone to walk around your house every hour or so. Also, if you have the option of using a standing desk while you’re at home, definitely take advantage — there are a lot of them at a range of prices, and they’ll greatly help with your circulation.Get Social Time InAt the same time, working from home doesn’t have to be a lonely time. Try to see the other people living in your house while you’re taking work breaks or, if you live alone, make phone and video calls to your friends and loved ones.Seeing and talking to other people during your day (whether it’s work-related or not) will give your brain a bit of a break and allow you to feel more focused and motivated when you get back to your tasks at hand. Know When to Call it QuitsAs any self-employed or work-from-home person will tell you, knowing how to turn your work brain off for the day is easier said than done. So, to do this, I have a few strategies.First, set a specific time of the day that you promise yourself to be done work, and turn off your computer at that time. Of course, that sounds simple enough, but actually sticking to it takes a bit of willpower.Secondly, stick to the daily to-do list that you created at the top of your day, and only work until you get all of those tasks done (granted you don’t overload yourself, that is).Thirdly, schedule in some social time at the end of every day that will force you to get out of work mode.Let’s be honest, things happen beyond our control — both while traveling and while we’re at home — so it’s important to have some tools ready and available during those difficult situations in our lives. We have gathered our best tips to help you stay calm during a crisis.Whether it’s a missed flight, lost or stolen passport, sickness, disaster, or pandemic, we can’t avoid uncomfortable situations in our lives. “It’s not what happens to you, but how you react to it that matters” is one of my favorite quotes and something I’ve personally struggled with for the better part of my life.Up until about a year ago, I felt as if I had zero control over how I reacted to difficult situations in my life. My nervous system was ready to go into fight or flight at any given moment and sometimes even the smallest thing could set me into a panic spiral.If you find yourself struggling during challenging times in your life, first let me say, you are NOT alone! This is completely normal!Luckily, there are so many tools to help shift from a person who reacts to every external circumstance to a person who can stay calm even when things get tough. These are some of the tools I have found to be extremely helpful!No matter your reasoning — whether you’re going through something tough, want to grow as a person, or just have some time on your hands — it’s always a good time to read (or listen to!) a personal development book. These books will not only lift you up when you’re feeling down, they are also a great way to learn more about the world, get inspired to try new things, expand your mind, and have an adventure while you do it!That said, in my experience, not all personal development reads are created equal. I’ve read some real doozies in my day, and while I think that every book brings something to the table, there’s nothing like a good recommendation to help get you started.Why We Love Using TrustedHousesitters When We Travelf you’ve ever thought of either hiring a housesitter or housesitting for someone else, then chances are you’ve heard of TrustedHousesitters.TrustedHousesitters is a service used by homeowners and travelers who are either looking for someone to care for their home and pets while they’re away or who are traveling and looking for accommodation.I’d heard of TrustedHousesitters years ago from fellow bloggers who raved about using the site, but it wasn’t until last year when we got a kitten that we actually signed up. Since then, we’ve had 3 different sitters stay at our house, caring for our kitten and all of the experiences have been exceptional.For us, the toughest part about choosing a sitter through the site is that there are literally dozens of amazing applicants to choose from. We love having the peace of mind of knowing our baby and our house will be taken care of while we’re away and all of our sitters have even sent us updates, photos, and videos.We’ve partnered with TrustedHousesitters to give you 12 reasons we love using this site when we travel!They Highlight TrustTo kick this off, let’s talk about the TrustedHousesitters service itself. What I love so much about using this site is that they highlight trust above all else. Every single person using the website comes vetted, referenced, and rated, so you know exactly who you’re letting into your home, or who’s home you’re sitting.Plus, TrustedHousesitters has a team on call 24/7 that will help you out should any questions or concerns arise. The ConvenienceBefore I found TrustedHousesitters, it was always such a struggle to find someone to watch our house while we were traveling. Our friends and family quickly burnt out of the gig, and it wasn’t easy finding someone to take in our cat while we were away.TrustedHousesitters is just so easy to use, and there are many great options for sitters. All we have to do is go on the site, enter the dates we’ll be away, and watch the applications roll in!Peace of MindLet’s be honest, leaving your home and pets behind when you travel can be stress-inducing. By bringing a house sitter into your home while you’re away, you can rest assured that your pets are being cared for and their schedules adhered to, and you don’t have to worry about leaving your home unattended.As I said above, every housesitter I’ve had has sent me photos and updates throughout their stay; it’s such a relief to get first-hand updates and know all is well.All The Comforts of HomeFrom a housesitter perspective, it can’t get much better than having a fully-stocked house to temporarily call home.Especially if you’re traveling long term, staying in a hotel can get old fast, and you’ll quickly find yourself craving a kitchen, laundry, and your own space to retreat to every night.Save MoneyOf course, for both housesitters and homeowners, saving money is a huge perk of a TrustedHousesitters account. For sitters, you’ll save a ton of money on accommodation, and you won’t have to eat out all the time or send out your laundry to have it washed.Plus, for homeowners with pets, you’ll save a lot of money on kennels, boarding rates, or paying someone to come in and watch your furbabies.Yes, having a TrustedHousesitter’s account means paying an annual fee, but it more than pays for itself once you start using the service. Keep Your Home Safe & Well KeptLeaving your home and garden untended for an extended period of time generally means shutting down your garden, cleaning out your fridge, and hiring a lawnmower, but why worry about leaving your home empty when you could get someone to look after it?By choosing a house sitter (and agreeing on the details), you’ll have someone to water your garden, mow your lawn, and have someone around should a pipe burst or an appliance stop working.Further, by getting a house sitter, you’ll have someone coming and going to help avoid opportunistic theft.Less Stress on Your PetsSure, leaving your pet in a boarding house is stressful for you, but for your pet, the experience is ten times worse. Your pet doesn’t know they’re in a safe place around people they can trust, all they know is that they’re in a cage surrounded by chaos.Getting a sitter means your pet gets to stay in their home and receive the same amount of love and attention they’re used to. Not to mention, on the off chance that your pet gets sick while you’re away, you can rest easy knowing that the sitter has access to a 24/7 Vet Advice Line on TrustedHousesitters!A Cuddly Pet ExperienceSpeaking of pets, if you’re someone who doesn’t have any and wants to hang out with some animals while traveling, then housesitting is the perfect option. Before I got my cat, I would have loved to stay in accommodation that came with pets included.This video is a heartwarming first-hand account of caring for someone’s pet abroad, and what the TrustedHousesitter’s experience is like as a whole.Have a More Authentic Travel ExperienceIf you want to really dive into the culture of your destination, then there is no better way to do that than by housesitting. You’ll get to shop at the local grocery stores and markets, check out the parks and cafes, and adjust to the small quirks and differences in daily life in every country.Plus, if you speak the language, you could even meet and hang out with your neighbors. Explore Off the Beaten Path DestinationsWhile you can find a hotel in any major city center, by using TrustedHousesitters, you’ll have way more choice of where you can stay and what you can do while you’re there.TrustedHousesitters is used by more than 23 000 people, so chances are you’ll be able to find an awesome place to stay no matter which country you’re traveling through. On the website, you can find luxe city escapes, rustic country homes, and everything in between.Travel More SustainablyIf you’re concerned about your impact on the cities you visit when you travel, then house sitting is a great way to reduce your tourist footprint. Especially when stacked up against paid short-term house rentals, you’ll help out the local housing economy and get to live like a local while you do it. Meet New PeopleIt may not be the first thing that comes to mind when you think of house sitting, but becoming a TrustedHousesitter is actually a great way to meet new people and build a community.Becoming trusted in somebody’s house will help you forge relationships with that person, have someone to ask questions about the town, and you’ll maybe even have the chance to return the favor someday.Choosing the best meditation retreat for you depends on the type of experience you want. To get the best bang for your buck and have a great experience, you’ll have to decide on factors such as location, what your intentions are, and what expectations you have.Traveling for a meditation retreat is the perfect way to mix adventure and spirituality. Retreats will have you connecting with your destination a little deeper, getting to know yourself a little better, and experiencing a whole new type of travel.There are endless types of meditation retreats out there, and picking the best one for you requires a little soul searching. Here are our best tips for how to choose the best meditation retreat for you!Consider the LocationThere are meditation retreats available all over the world; so narrowing down the pool to a specific area is a great way to kick-start your search. Decide whether you want to take part in a local retreat, or if you prefer jetting off to another country.If you have never done a meditation retreat before, then I recommend signing up for a smaller one close to home. This will give you a good idea of what to expect at a retreat without spending a lot of money or committing to another country. Understand Your ExpectationsBefore you book a retreat, understand exactly what your expectations for a meditation retreat are. Do you prioritize a certain amount of meditation per day? Are there spiritual aspects that you’d like to have as a part of the retreat?Knowing exactly what your expectations are will help you narrow down which meditation retreats are best for you.At the same time, keep your expectations minimal. While it’s great to know what you’re looking for in a meditation retreat, approaching the experience with as little expectations as possible will keep your mind open for anything that comes your way.