A TRUSTED HOUSESITTERS REVIEW AND HOW IT WORKSFree accommodation around the world sounds too good to be true but that is exactly what TrustedHousesitters offers travelers. And for homeowners it provides peace of mind that their home and pets will be taken care of while they are away. It connects people that love animals safely and securely through their site and offer amazing homes for travelers while they are on the road. It is a win-win situation for everyone involved and the ultimate way to live like a local. This is my review using TrustedHousesitters and more about how it works as a first-timer.How TrustedHousesitters WorksI’d heard great about house sitting for years but hadn’t had the chance to try it for myself until recently. As a potential house sitter, the first step is finding a destination and dates that work for both you and the owner. This is the fun part on TrustedHousesitters. You can search the globe for your ideal destination, homes, and dates easily on the site.For my first sit I was looking for a home in Southern California and that is how I found Mike, his two wonderful dogs, and cat. TrustedHousesitters relies on a strong verification process and reviews to connect home owners and house sitters. I was confident I had everything I needed before arriving at his home in California after using TrusteHousesitters to plan my trip.House Sitting Safety and VerificationI spoke to Mike, the homeowner, via email and over the phone multiple times before traveling to California for the house sit. He provided details instructions for his home and taking care of the pets. TrustedHousesitters verifies all sitters before every sit by using a 3-step verification process. Verification includes global identity with I.D. document cross-checks and criminal background checks. This ensures the homeowner can trust someone to look after their pets and will safely take care of their house.What to Expect on Your First House SitHomeowners on TrustedHousesitters are looking for a reliable sitter (or couple) to live at their home while they are away. This means taking care of the house as if you lived in it and looking after their pets as if they are your own. Your primary responsibility will be caring for the homeowners pets and keeping the house in great shape.What You Need to Know About House SittingHouse sitting is built on trust and communication. The more you can provide about yourself on TrustedHousesitters profile the better. Find dates that work for the owner and your travel needs and be sure to be honest about your ability to take care of their pets. Cats and dogs are the most common types of pets that need care but you might find an owner that needs a horse sitter. Talk to the homeowners before, during and after the sit to make sure everything is ready to go and they know their pets are in good hands.My First House Sitting ExperienceMy first experience house sitting with TrustedHousesitters was everything a first-time sitter could ask for. Incredible house, wonderful homeowner, and two wonderful dogs to keep me company. I would’ve loved to stay at Mike’s home in Southern California for weeks and already miss his two dogs, Ghost and Stack. I can’t wait to find another home to house sit again soon.TIPS FOR SAFELY RENTING A VACATION HOMEI’ve been renting vacation homes around the world for more than a decade. It is one of my favorite ways to immerse myself in the local culture and simply have more space for my friends and family. During the holidays it is an especially busy rental season, which means the risk of fraud and theft increase greatly.If you’re renting out your home this season for extra income or staying in someone else’s home you need to know the risks and how to stay protected. Understanding how your insurance may help cover you while you’re away from home can give you some peace of mind, allowing you to focus on your vacation and holiday fun and Allstate is here to help.ips for Safely Renting A Vacation HomeOver the holidays I plan to rent someone’s home, but want to stay protected when doing so. This means I go to favorite vacation rental site and check for positives on the selection of homes I’m looking at. The next step is to contact the owner. Email and messaging works great, but getting the owner of the home on the phone before you book is even better. And I never wire money when I can pay through the vacation rental site.However, this is only the start of my vacation home process to stay safe.Stay Safe Renting a Vacation HomeStaying safe and covered while on vacation is just as important as it is at home. That is why I always double check my coverage and take the steps necessary to stay safe when I rent vacation homes for the holidays. I hope for the best, but plan for the unexpected.If you already have renters or homeowners insurance at your home, it usually includes two types of coverage that can help protect you while you’re renting someone else’s home on vacation; personal property coverage and liability coverage. When in doubt, reach out to your insurance agent before your trip. Your agent can help answer questions about how your existing insurance policy may or may not offer protection while you’re staying at a vacation rental home.Leave Your Valuables At HomeThis might seem obvious, but it is tempting to bring your valuables with you on vacation. Theft can still occur no matter if you’re in your own home or renting another. That is why I try to leave the valuables at home. Since your homeowners policy may apply lower coverage limits to your belongings if they are damaged, lost or destroyed away from your home, this is an easy way to avoid any problems while you’re supposed to be enjoying a lazy day at the beach.Always a Renter Never a HostAfter all these years renting vacation homes, I’ve started considering renting out my own home as well. Would you ever rent out your own home?HOW TO STAY IN TOUCH WHILE TRAVELINGThanks to technology, staying in touch on the go never been easier – or cheaper. With a smart phone or tablet and an internet connection, there is nothing stopping you from connecting with friends and family back home. Here are some useful travel hacks and ways of keeping in touch that make it easier to reach your loved ones whilst out on the road.1.Locate Free Wi-FiFrom email to social media, the easiest methods of keeping in touch are reliant on the internet. Whilst most of us are familiar with the typical caf? chains and hotels that offer Wi-Fi, these may not always be in the vicinity, making it trickier to find local internet spots abroad. Before you set off, it is definitely worth downloading an app such as The Free WiFi Finder, which locates Wi-Fi spots in over fifty countries worldwide and, most importantly, works without an internet connection.2. Update Your Social MediaSocial media is the perfect solution for staying in touch without too much effort. Uploading photos and checking in your location, for example through Facebook, instantly updates your friends as to your whereabouts without the need for crafting lengthy messages. Although a more impersonal form of communication, it provides quick confirmation that you are safe, well, and enjoying yourself! You can also customize your posts so that they are only visible to certain friends, or tag specific people to let them know you’re thinking of them.3. Use Instant MessagingInstant messaging is great for dropping a quick line whenever you have Wi-Fi, enabling a real-time conversation with your online contacts. WhatsApp is a completely free messaging platform which, provided you have an internet connection, allows you to send messages to other WhatsApp users among your contact list anywhere in the world. The group messaging function makes it easy to chat with multiple people at once, and you can also update your status and share pictures, videos and voice notes.4. Set Up Video ChatFor a more personal catch up rather than a quick check-in, video chat provides quality face-to-face time with your loved ones, no matter where you are in the world. Whilst Skype and FaceTime are some of the more well-known video calling services, there are plenty of other options available depending on the device you are using. Tango, for example, enables smartphone users to make video calls from Android and iPhone, whilst ooVoo facilitates group calling and document sharing. Whichever method you choose, be sure to set up an account before you go so that you’re ready to simply dial in as soon as you get online.5. Make Cheap International CallsWhile most modern-day methods of staying in touch are reliant on the internet, there is no need to be cut off from the rest of the world simply because you don’t have Wi-Fi. Jinggling is a mobile app that enables you to make high-quality, low-cost international calls from your mobile without changing your phone number or existing mobile provider, and will automatically switch your phone to roaming mode when you leave the country. It’s also incredibly easy to top up your credit, as Jinggling is compatible with paysafecard, a payment option that allows you to pay online without entering any credit card or bank account details – ideal for when you’re on the move.EXPLORING VENICE IN 3 DAYSVenice has changed very little during the last few hundred years. The decaying architecture only adds to the romantic charm of the classic city, which resembles a maze. Getting lost while exploring and navigating the 118 islands is fun. Venice is beautiful, but it is also overrun with tourists, and things are often not as serene as the famous photos that caused you to visit. It is still an enjoyable travel destination, and with a little planning you will agree it’s worth spending three days here.Meals and HotelsMeals and hotels are pricey when compared to other cities and regions of Italy. Book an affordable bed-and-breakfast or check out Airbnb for places to stay offered by local residents. There is no need to break the bank visiting Venice for a few days. The area near San Marco Square will most certainly be the busiest and most expensive as well. Expect to pay higher rates the closer you are to the action. Moving just a little further away from this tourist hotspot will save you plenty on your nightly lodging cost.Day Trip to MuranoVenice is a small city of canals, but at times it can feel chaotic and busy. Escaping to one of the nearby major islands is a nice way to break up your trip. Head to Murano early in the morning to check out glass making, and take a look at the glass collections dating back more than six centuries. While Murano may lack the charm of the main city, it does offer a unique look into some amazing glass factories.Visit the Big 3Palazzo Ducale (Doge’s Palace), Basilica di San Marco (St. Mark’s Basilica), and Canal Grande (Grand Canal) are the most recognizable sites in Venice, photographed and painted countless times by tourists and artists alike. They draw large crowds during the day, but no visit to Venice is complete without visiting these historic sites.Pick Up a 72-Hour PassGetting around in Venice is going to rely heavily on public transport, which includes many water buses when navigating the canals. The Venezia Unica City Pass will save you money on public transportation, cultural experiences, and other useful services throughout the city.Finding a Tranquil VeniceAlthough crowded, high season is the best time to visit Venice due to the weather and travel dates. Stay in neighborhoods such as Dorsoduro, Santa Croce, or Cannaregio for a more peaceful stay. Traveling in the shoulder season or off-season may offer little to no crowds, but expect very wet weather and some very foggy days. Combining a quiet neighborhood with the peak season offers the best of both worlds.Making the Most of VeniceSpend your days getting lost in its beautiful maze, and spend evenings dining on the canals. No visit to Venice is complete without an obligatory gondola ride through the canals. These don’t come cheap, but it is a fun activity that everyone can enjoy. Three days is plenty of time to enjoy Venice before moving on to other great cities in Italy.NEXT STOP EVEREST: THE TRIP OF A LIFETIMEI’ve been fascinated by Mt. Everest since I was a kid. I remember reading Into Thin Air and thinking I wanted to do the same. While the desire to climb to the world’s highest peak faded the feeling to visit Nepal and trek the Himalayas only grew. I wanted to see Mt. Everest with my own eyes and accomplish one of the travel goals I created to complete over the next few years.In 2012 Triphackr was just a baby and I was planning to make the trip to Everest Base Camp. I was already travel hacking and had managed find a flight to Kathmandu for just a few hundred dollars. However, I still had a full-time job and taking off 3 or more weeks wasn’t reasonable at the time. Traveling with a full-time job can be done but I decided to postpone my trip.In 2015 that all changed. I now run Triphackr full-time and knew the timing was right. I don’t usually make trip announcements but this has been years in the making and I wanted to share the experience from start to finish.Everest Base Camp TrekAfter some research I discovered Active Adventures. They are a New Zealand based company and lead trips all over the world. They have excellent reviews and after all, Sir Edmund Hillary was a Kiwi, so these guys must know the mountain pretty well.I will be traveling with Active Adventures to Everest Base Camp on March 30th for a 19 day trip. I plan to stay in the region and continue on to Bhutan but you can see the day-by-day route in the graphic below.My Trekking PartnerFortunately I am not doing this trek alone. I will be with the Active Adventures team and my buddy Gareth from Tourist2Townie. Gareth and I met back in 2013 in Toronto and we met up again last year in Rio. We both live in New York but have never seen each other stateside. That isn’t going to change yet and I’ll be seeing him in Kathmandu in a few weeks.As you can see last time I saw him he was enjoying the beach in Rio but it’s good to see he’s been training for our next adventure.Be sure to Follow Tourist2Townie as we post photos from Nepal and Bhutan. His travel videos from all over Brazil are amazing and I am expecting us to produce some incredible footage from the Himalayas. And check out his YouTube channel for some travel inspiration.Nepal and BhutanWe’ve both been training to get into shape for the high altitudes but we can only train with what is available to us. Altitude sickness can hit anyone of any condition or age so we are doing the best we can to prepare. We are traveling with a very experienced team at Active Adventures so I am confident they will be able to help us reach our goal.After reaching base camp and exploring Kathmandu we are headed to Bhutan with Yeoong Tours and Travels. Bhutan has always been a dream to visit since I first discovered where the Tiger’s Nest was located. Since then I’ve wanted to see it with my own eyes.Expectations for this TripMy goal is to make it to Everest Base Camp. That sounds simple but it is going to be physically and mentally challenging. Altitude sickness isn’t fun and it usually hits everyone to some degree along the way. However, the unknown is half the fun. I can’t wait to see what every morning brings with new views of the mountains and little villages to explore in the Himalayas.We are planning to document this every step of the way. Expect photos daily on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Videos will be posted once we return home from our trek and trip to Bhutan.17 AWESOME INSTAGRAM TRAVEL BLOGGERS TO FOLLOWInstagram is my favorite way to share and discover new places around the world. I am always looking for new travel accounts to follow. I don’t just follow photographers but I like to follow people that tell a story  and introduce me to new places around the world. This includes bloggers, writers, brands as well as excellent photographers. I loved the Expert Vagabond’s list last year of best travel photographers and wanted to share my favorites as well.Of course I follow Instagram accounts like GoPro and National Geographic but I find travel bloggers and photographers to by my favorite accounts. Not only are some of them my friends but they are all over the world doing amazing things. They inspire me to take my next trip and how to make the most of it while I’m there.These are my favorite Instagram travelers to follow. So get inspired by them and follow their adventures.