After my first 7-week trip to Europe back in 2009, I knew that traveling was something I was strongly passionate about.  So in the Spring of 2010, I decided to spend a semester abroad in the beautiful city of Rome, and that decision forever changed my life.

Upon graduating with my Bachelor’s degree,  I managed to land an international travel guide position for a small company based in Florence, Italy.

Every weekend I was leading different trips to some of the most popular destinations in Europe.  
I’ve been paid to attend Oktoberfest in Germany, Toga Parties in Greece, and the Cannes Film Festival in The French Riviera.  I’ve organized and guided walking tours and nightlife excursions in top cities like Prague, Barcelona, Paris, Amsterdam, and Berlin.  I’ve taken hundreds of people snowboarding in the Swiss Alps, booze cruising in the Amalfi Coast, and to the infamous Spa Parties in Budapest.

Every weekend I was given the opportunity to meet new people from around the world, and show them as much fun as humanly possible.  These were two of the craziest years of my life, and I was truly “living the dream”.  

If anyone has a fun personality and wants to start living abroad, I’d definitely recommend applying to be  tour guide around Europe!
THE NOMADIC GRAD STUDENT
After living in Italy for two years, I decided to move to The Netherlands to begin my Master’s Degree studies.  I knew I wanted to continue my education abroad, and always has this strong urge to experience life in Holland.  It’s truly one of my favorite countries, and would definitely love to back again someday.

But after 4+ months of living in a small university city called “Leiden”, I packed up my bags and transferred to the online program.  Why…?

Well, you know the term Digital Nomad…?  I became a Digital Student…
I decided to complete the remainder of my Master’s Degree online while I simultaneously backpacked around South-East Asia.  While most people thought I was crazy to combine study and travel, I actually found it to be quite achievable with some hard-work, responsibility, and time management skills.

I immediately fell in love with the long-term backpacking culture, the budget travel options in South-East Asia, and treating the world as my classroom.  Traveling during your twenties is so important, and I’m so happy I figured out this was an option!

In March 2015, I finished my Master’s Degree while in backpacking in The Philippines!  I celebrated in style that night on a private island party in Palawan.  It was an experience I’ll never forget, and a monumental moment in my life!
MOVING TO SYDNEY ON A WORKING HOLIDAY VISA
After over 18+ months backpacking around South-East Asia & Europe, I was completely broke and decided to move to Sydney to “live a normal life” for a bit!  

I found myself a decent job, a great shared house to live in, and had an amazing crew to hang out with every weekend.  I was no longer a nomad.  Sydney became more than just another travel destination, it became my second home.

It was during this 9-month period in Sydney where Jones Around The World really started gaining some traction.  I was invited on my first press trip, started earning some money, re-designed the website, and learned a lot about the business side of blogging.

I really do miss living in Sydney, as Australia has become one of my favorite countries to travel around.  I’ve even become one an official “Qantas Explorer”, which is a super exciting aspect of my life right now!
CURRENTLY
I left Sydney in June 2016, and have returned to my nomadic traveling lifestyle.

That’s one of the most exciting aspects about becoming a full-time travel-blogger and photographer, is that I can work anywhere in the world.  I’m making a decent income online now through this website, and always have some exciting travel plans to look forward to!

While I do find myself back home in California from time to time, I’m just following my dreams of traveling the world, photographing music festivals, and making every day count.

Looking for the best Australia Travel Tips for traveling down the east coast?  Well, look no further, because you’ve come to the right place!  

From snorkeling in the jaw-dropping Great Barrier Reef, sailing through the idyllic Whitsundays, and four-wheel driving along Fraser Island’s sandy beaches – backpacking along the east coast of Australia is full of adventurous experiences you’ll never forget. 

Traveling from Sydney to Cairns, or Cairns to Sydney is an extremely popular route for backpackers in Australia, and you’re guaranteed to be surrounded by like-minded travelers from all over the world (but expect lots of German, English, and Canadians, lol).  I just recently completed this trek a few months ago, and had the absolute time of my life! While I wish I wasn’t as rushed (only had about 4 weeks), I was constantly amazed about how magnificent Australia is!  
1) DON’T STRESS ABOUT NOT SEEING EVERYTHING
Australia is massive, and there’s so much to do!  Whenever you get into a new destination, you’ll notice dozens of  travel agencies that all offer countless different packaged trips.  Unless you’re the richest backpacker in the world, you’re not going to be able to do absolutely everything.

Don’t worry!  Research in advance what you want to prioritize, and book those activities / tours.  Always be on the look-out for backpacker specials, and you can always try to “copy the tours” activities and do it on your own (or with a group of friends).

) BUY GROCERIES & LEARN HOW TO PROPERLY COOK 4-5 MEALS 
This one is important!  Food is ridiculously expensive in Australia, and if you eat out for every meal, you’re going to blow through your budget way too quickly.  Almost every hostel in Australia will have a communal kitchen that has all the equipment you’ll need to prepare a solid feed.  

I was really surprised when I realized how well some of my backpacker friends could cook!  The majority of people just make different variations of  pasta and rice dishes, but there are a few I noticed who looked like they were competing for Iron Chef.

Everyone has blue “cool bags” to keep perishables safe while they are in transit in between hostels, and has a separate bag filled with spices, oils, and other cooking necessities.  You can also check out the “FREE” corner of the hostel, because sometimes people always leave behind things they no longer need.

NOTE:  DON’T STEAL OTHER PEOPLE’S FOOD!  IF YOU DO — YOU ARE HOSTEL SCUM!  
3) GET A PAY-AS-YOU-GO PLAN ON THE TELSTRA NETWORK
When I moved to Sydney on a Working Holiday Visa, I signed up with Vodafone because they had a really great special going on at the moment.  I really enjoyed the service, so when I made the journey back to Australia to travel the east coast, I used Vodafone again.  That was my mistake. 

Once you get outside of the major cities, the Vodafone network is absolutely awful.  You need to have a plan on the TELSTRA network!
4) SKYDIVE
I made the decision to go skydiving for my first time while I was in Australia, and I highly recommend doing the same!  While it is pretty damn expensive, I do think it’s 100% worth it!

There is one main company called Skydive Australia, and there are several great destinations to choose from along the East Coast.  While a lot of people say that Mission Beach is the best places to skydive, I’d have to recommend choosing SkyDive Airlie Beach.  The views you get of the Whitsundays are spectacular, and you’ll get an unbelievable adrenaline rush + a scenic float on the way down.

Look-out for specials / packages if you book things together.
5) BECOME A YHA MEMBER
I traveled the east coast and stayed entirely at the various YHA Hostels.  If you become a member ($25 AUD Per Year), you gain 10% off every stay, and there’s tons of other benefits like discounts on international hostels and packaged tours.

Every single YHA Hostel I stayed at was very clean, comfortable, and centrally located.  At most destinations they have free pick-ups at the bus stations, and everything was just super easy.  You can also purchase “E-Packs” for 5 nights, 10 nights, or 15 nights, which made the booking process really convenient.

YHA isn’t quite a “party hostel”, but there’s definitely always a party nearby!
6) ASK THE HOSTEL STAFF FOR RECOMMENDATIONS
Just do it!  They know the area well, and are happy to help out!

Every time I checked into any hostel, the first thing I did was ask the staff for simple recommendations on food, nightlife, and the best things to do.  It’s one of the best ways to figure out how to spend your time in each destination, and can also can help you save heaps of cash!
7) THE GREYHOUND BUS PASS WORKS WELL
I had the Cairns – Sydney hop-on / hop-off bus pass, and I would 100% recommend it.  

The stations were all easily accessible, the buses were (mostly) on time, and I found them all really comfortable.  There’s wi-fi that works okay (don’t expect to stream Netflix though), charging ports for your electronics, and even had a bathroom (in case of emergencies).

I found the online booking system extremely easy to use.  There were several daily departures to choose from in between the popular destinations, and I never had an issue with getting a seat.  If the bus isn’t your preferred travel style, you could always look into buying a campervan in Australia.

9) RENT A CAR IN GROUPS FOR DAY-TRIPS
You might be surprised to find out that renting a car in Australia is actually pretty affordable.

I rented cars in Cairns, Mission Beach, Magnetic Island, Noosa, and Sydney.  It’s really easy to find people at hostels who are down to split the cost, and do some exploring to nearby attractions.

For example, if your’e on Magnetic Island you NEED a 4WD to explore all the bays.  So I rented a 4WD Van through Isle Car, and split the cost with several people I met at the Bungalow Bay YHA.  It was super easy, and allowed us to make the most of our time on Magnetic Island! 11) BRING A GOPRO
While I did bring along and shoot primarily with my Nikon D750 DSLR (and two lenses), I always carry my GoPro Hero 5 pretty much everywhere as well.  It’s a solid option for a travel camera, and perfect for Australia due to it’s underwater capabilities.  It also takes pretty great videos, and it’s always a fun idea to make a quick “aftermovie” of your travels! 12) SKIP TOWNSVILLE
It’s simply not worth a visit.

The bus station in Townsville is at the ferry point over to Magnetic Island, so you can easily hop off the bus, and head straight onto the ferry over to Magnetic Island!  It’s extremely common, and there’s simply nothing too exciting in Townsville.

The bus and ferry schedules work really well together, so when you’re on your way back to the mainland, just get straight on the bus up to Mission Beach, or make your way down to Airlie Beach.
13) WATCH THE SUNRISE!
The sun rises on the east and sets on the west!!

Do yourself a favor and wake up early to catch the sunrise at least once or twice a week, because it’s one of the most beautiful and best ways to start your day (or end a night of partying).

14) WORK FOR ACCOMMODATION
Don’t have an end date for your backpacking adventure…?

At pretty much every hostel I stayed in along the east-coast, I noticed job opportunities exchanging a few hours of work each day for accommodation and 1-2 meals.  If I didn’t have to get back to Sydney in a few weeks, I definitely would have picked up one of these jobs for a few months.

I think it’s great when you can stay somewhere a bit longer, and become more involved within the local community.  If you’re really enjoying a certain stop, why not stay there a couple months?  
The worst thing that can happen to you in Australia is getting bit by some tiny spider or attacked by a poisonous snake, and not have the proper Travel Insurance.  While both of the above scenarios are extremely rare, you don’t want to risk thousands of dollars in Medical bills!

With that being said, it’s just always a good idea to have Travel Insurance anytime you head overseas.  As awful as it is, people do steal belongings while staying in hostels, but if you have proper coverage you can always file a police report.  I personally use World Nomads Travel Insurance!  I’ve never actually had to make a claim *knock on wood*, but several friends of mine have and all say World Nomads is really helpful.
17) DON’T BE A RUDE, INCONSIDERATE, OR OVERALL SHITTY PERSON
This is just a general rule of life, but I wanted to discuss it in this post.

Last but certainly not least — when you’re traveling the east-coast, you will have a 99% chance of running into the same people in several different destinations.  Everyone is working their way up / down the coast, and pretty much makes stops at all the same places.  So just don’t be a dick, and be friendly and respectful towards everyone!
Studying abroad was hands down the best decision of my entire life.  Why?  Well, because it changed my entire future of course!  I never really had a strong passion for international travel or seeing the world, but after spending 4 months in Rome, Italy — I knew that my life would never be the same.  I was able to travel to some of the most beautiful places in Europe, and meet some incredible people from different parts of the world.

My experiences during my semester abroad changed my life, and I want to inspire people to do the same!  Take a read below for some fun study abroad tips, and feel free to shoot me an email with any questions.
1) TAKE AN EASY-WORK LOAD
One of my biggest mistakes, when I studied abroad, was taking a very heavy class load during the semester.  I was taking 16 units (spread out over 5 different classes), and it was extremely difficult to keep up with all the homework.

The program I went there actually required everyone to take that many units, so I guess I didn’t really have a choice.  So if you have the option, try to take electives / easier classes, and don’t overdo it.  Studying abroad is more about your TIME abroad, and less about the studying aspect, haha.  If I had to re-do it, I’d take fewer units, and would even contemplate taking advantage of essay writing services available.
2)  MAXIMIZE ABSENCES
In each study abroad program, the classes will most likely only give you a certain amount allowed days to miss class.  At my school, you could ONLY miss three, and then you would drop a letter grade / immediate fail for anything more than that.  Take advantage of those, because you’ll need those Mondays & Thursday off to possibly book cheaper flights on RyanAir & EasyJet.

I would also strongly suggest not taking any classes on Fridays!  That is very important.
3)  TRAVEL AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE
Europe is one of the easiest and best continents to travel through, and I think traveling while your young is one of the most important things in the world.  Studying abroad is all about the places you go, the people you meet, and all the new experiences you have.  Trust me — take this advice, and travel as many weekends as you possibly can.  When it comes to your spring / fall break, don’t just go to one country and lay on a beach.  Try to explore a few different countries, stay in hostels, and go party it up with some locals!  Which perfectly brings me to my next point…
4)  MAKE LOCAL FRIENDS
I can’t stress this enough — you’re living abroad, and you absolutely must make some local friends!  I’ve worked in the study abroad industry for a couple years now, and it always makes me sad when I see groups of American students only spend time and travel with fellow Americans.  While you can make some amazing friendships with your study abroad crew, don’t miss the opportunity to forge some international friendships as well.
5 ) START A BLOG & TAKE LOADS OF PICTURES
I really wish I had started this travel blog back when I studied abroad in 2010.  Who knows where I would be now?  Granted, there wasn’t much competiton, and there’s a lot more now, but it’s defintiely worth having.  I’ve written a detailed guide about how to start a travel blog, so make sure you check it out.

This also means you should invest in a camera, and start taking loads of pictures.   This one is probably obvious, but I honestly wish I had taken more pictures during my study abroad semester.  I do have quite a bit, but they are all terrible quality and I’m left with very few souvenirs from my semester abroad.  Bring a decent camera or even a high-quality smart phone, and document your travels.  Maybe even start a blog (something I wish I had done during my semester in Rome).  So travel, take pictures, and explore the world!
There you have it!  While this is only the tip of the iceberg when it comes to studying abroad, these are my top 5 tips for making the most of your semester in Europe.

Heading on a study abroad soon?  Feel free to comment below or shoot me an email with any questions!!
