How to Bargain in Foreign CountriesThe other day I received an email from a reader asking me to confirm the proper way to bargain in foreign countries. The ‘proper way’ that was mentioned is something that I’ve heard from travelers all the time.It’s the 50% rule. And to me, the rule is wrong.Bargaining is indeed a part of travel. And with more people traveling than ever before, questions about bargaining are on the rise.In many countries, when you buy certain items, there are often no set prices. It’s just how it works.As a result, travelers all over the world spend time trying to figure out how much things should actually cost.But how do we really know how much we should be paying?Back to that oh-so-common 50% rule.Bargain in Foreign Countries – “The 50% Rule”This rule states that we should always take the starting price that a shopkeeper gives us and try to reduce it by 50%. We will then reach the ‘actual’ price.However, I’ll tell you exactly why that doesn’t work.The starting prices given by a shopkeeper or market vendor are not always the same. Different tourists get different starting prices.The shopkeeper will set that price by determining how much he thinks you will pay, based on many factors.This is why shopkeepers all over the world ask you ‘where are you from?‘, ‘is this your first time in India/Thailand/Morocco/etc?‘ and ‘what do you do?‘. The answers to those questions help them calculate their starting price based on their experience with people from your country and with as much travel experience as you have.So, if the real price of a silk shawl is $4 but the shopkeeper starts with $30, the 50% rule is way off.The 50% rule only works if every single shopkeeper automatically doubles the price of an item before you start the bargaining process.But since shopkeepers start with different prices based on what they think they can get from you in the end, that rule is useless.If the 50% rule doesn’t work though, what does work?Bargain in Foreign Countries – “The Better Method”The advice I give other travelers, which involves the quick method that has always worked best for me, is this:1. Shop around.If you see something you want to purchase, visit 2-3 other shops nearby that sell the same thing or something similar. Ask how much it costs at each of the shops. This will give you a general idea of a true starting price for negotiations. If one shop quotes you $50, another quotes $35 and another one quotes you $20, you know the actual price is below $20.2. Walk away.Based on the knowledge you gain from Step 1, decide on the price that you think is fair and offer that. If the shopkeeper declines, you can simply thank them and walk away. If your price is indeed too low, the shopkeeper will let you leave. If your price is indeed doable or very close to an acceptable price, they will call you back into the shop and accept or provide one last offer.This method is quick, efficient and it works every time.And for those travelers who don’t like to bargain in foreign countries (which makes sense if you’re not used to it), this is an easy way to get a better price without getting too involved in the potentially awkward bargaining process.Final Thoughts on BargainingIt’s not always worth bargaining. If the difference is a very small amount, it’s generally better to just accept their slightly higher price. After all, this is their business and livelihood and as a traveler, we already have enough money to have traveled to this destination in the first place. Bargaining over a few cents or even a few dollars is probably not worth it.In many countries, bargaining is part of business for everyone, not just something aimed at tourists. And since it’s expected, it should always be done in a polite, even-mannered way as getting angry or being rude is not how it’s supposed to work.You will always get ripped off. I’ve been traveling for 20+ years and I still get ripped off. It’s impossible to avoid but again, it’s usually not by a huge amount. If you’re happy with your purchase, that’s the main thing. And if you paid a little more than the ‘normal’ price, it’s really not a big deal in the end.Safe travels and happy bargaining!Let’s Talk About Tourist Crowds (Are They Everywhere?)Tourist crowds.I’m not a huge fan. I just don’t feel comfortable when the streets are jam-packed, when I need to constantly dodge other people, when I’m faced with lines and groups and little space to call my own.As travel becomes more and more popular and commonplace though, such tourist crowds seem to be the norm all over the world. Walking down the street in many destinations requires a lot of focus in order to avoid bumping into strollers, lost tourists and group leaders that don’t seem to mind taking over the sidewalks.Of course, I know I’m part of the problem too. I am indeed a tourist visiting these very same destinations.Forget about low seasons and high seasons, forget about visiting cold destinations in the heart of winter or tropical destinations in the middle of monsoon season. It almost doesn’t seem to matter any more. Travelers are everywhere, all the time.We were just in Granada, Spain during what was supposedly the low season. It was 10C / 48F and rainy but the streets were packed and the tapas bars full, every day and every night.Before that we were in Porto, Portugal, walking around in the cold, right alongside thousands of others willing to line up for an hour at the Livraria Lello or ready to walk along the Douro River.In Lisbon earlier this month we were quite thankful to be staying at an Airbnb away from the city center, and away from the crowds that turned the streets of the Chiado and Alfama neighborhoods into one big bus tour.Tourist Crowds Shouldn’t Ruin A TripOf course, we still loved these destinations. I’ve always been a strong believer that travel is about the mindset anyway, not the actual places we visit. It really is possible to enjoy any country, city or village if we’re open to getting the most out of our experiences and we focus on the important stuff.For me, that focus has always been local interaction and local activity.And no matter how crowded or touristy a place might be, those two things are still ALWAYS possible. (I follow a simple 5-minute rule to help ensure I have local experiences.)Tourist Crowds Are NOT EverywhereAt the same time, there are definitely moments when I just want to push through a crowd and keep running until I’m somewhere quiet, somewhere without other tourists around, somewhere without lines, where we can just enjoy our surroundings on our own.That takes me to last week…As my girlfriend and I walked around the Alhambra in Granada, Spain, a breathtaking palace and fortress so very worthy of at least one visit in a lifetime, I made two observations:The Alhambra is one of the most impressive buildings in Europe.I love Romania.Yes, you read that correctly.While the Alhambra completely blew me away and quickly became a travel highlight of this year, my mind couldn’t help but drift to Romania at times.The Alhambra. AWESOME. And crowded.Corvin’s Castle in Hunedoara, Romania. Not as awesome, but definitely remarkable. And no tourist crowds at all.The same goes for Sighisoara, Corund and Sibiu.That short list includes one of the best preserved medieval villages in Europe, a stunning region in the countryside where traditional life is still the norm and a historic and gorgeous city. If all of those places were located in a more popular country, they, too, would be full of crowds.But for now, they offer all the good stuff, without the over-tourism.Sure, there are tourists in Romania but compared to the sights of Western Europe, there’s VERY, VERY, VERY few. (In Corund, one of my favorite areas, there’s almost none!)Getting Away From the CrowdsNaturally, it’s not just Romania. There are many countries where even the greatest of what they offer can be enjoyed without the tourist crowds and lines and buses.Such locations are becoming slightly harder to find these days, but they do still exist.Actually, maybe they aren’t much harder to find. It’s just that everyone wants to visit the same places that they see on social media or that have the marketing budget to promote themselves as the destinations we ‘must see’ now. Or simply a destination where airlines are suddenly offering crazy cheap flights that we simply can’t turn down.Whatever the root, though, it’s worth getting away from the crowds from time to time.There really is something special about having a castle mostly to yourself, even if it’s not rated the most unbelievable castle on the planet.There really is something rewarding about walking into a restaurant and being the only foreigner.Or visiting a small workshop where the family is actually creating something useful for the community, not just to sell to tourists.When you end up in the middle of a local religious ceremony or being invited off the street and into a birthday celebration, chances are high it didn’t happen in the middle of an extremely touristy city. It usually happens in places without crowds, where genuine interaction is still appreciated by all sides.That’s why my mind drifts to Romania every now and then. It’s one of those countries that offers authentic interaction and rewarding travel experiences almost everywhere you go.It’s also why my mind drifts to East Timor, Western Sahara and a local island in the Maldives. It’s why I’m just as happy in the streets of Timisoara or Moshi or on a random dirt road outside of Wanaka, New Zealand talking to a farmer about her horses as I am at the dreamy Gardens By The Bay in Singapore or wandering around Rome.While those popular locations are popular for a reason, sometimes the lack of tourist crowds makes up for the lack of ‘top 10’ sights or ‘must do’ activities. Sometimes all we need is a destination all to ourselves.Of course, ‘all to ourselves’ is impossible…but luckily, there are still destinations out there that offer something pretty darn close.Thoughts? How do you feel about visiting incredible, but crowded, places vs less discovered destinations?How to Enjoy Local Travel Experiences – The 5-Minute RuleYou want local travel experiences. You start researching destinations. You discover that so many cities are considered overrun with tourists. You hear about countries that appear to be so touristy, others say they’re not worth visiting.It’s true. There’s a lot of destinations in the world that have a lot of tourists/travelers in them. So, if you prefer to stay away from mass tourism, it can seem like a real challenge to find an ideal destination to visit.But…think about this.In my 19 years of constant travel, it does seem to me that 90% of travelers (that’s not based on any real data!) visit the same places, eat at the same restaurants along the same main squares, walk down the same streets and wander in and out of the same shops, all over the world.There’s nothing wrong with visiting the main sights or the most interesting neighborhoods as well, or eating that famous pastry from the famous bakery.But if you want local travel experiences, all you really need to do is follow one very simple rule.The 5-Minute Rule for Local Travel ExperiencesHere’s how it works:Step 1: Turn around.Step 2: Walk away.Yes, that easy. That’s the rule.We’ve been here in Lisbon for a few weeks now and this city is absolutely jam-packed with tourists and travelers and cruise ship passengers and foreigners of all kinds. There are lines and crowds in all of the ‘famous’ areas and there are a lot of ‘famous’ areas!If you aren’t into visiting touristy destinations, you might feel the urge to flee from this city within a few minutes of your arrival.At the same time…Despite Lisbon, and Portugal in general, being one of the ‘tourism hotspots’ in Europe right now, our experience here has not been a touristy one.Far from it, actually.Again, all we do is turn around and walk away.When we look for a place to eat, we look in neighborhoods that are a 5 minute walk away from the areas that are full of tourist-oriented restaurants.When we want to have a coffee, we turn from the famous square, lined with cafes serving up low quality food and drinks to a never-ending stream of travelers…and we walk away. We head down a random street and climb up some random stairs.When we want to explore the city, we head to the areas that are most popular with tourists and then we pick a direction and start walking away. Sometimes we’ll later head back and do it again in a different direction.The Wonderful ResultsUsing this easy method, we end up with the local travel experiences that we prefer.We end up at cozy local restaurants down quiet lanes, with doors that are not plastered with TripAdvisor stickers. There will be no English spoken, the customers will all be Portuguese and the prices will be a fraction of the tourist restaurants nearby…and the food usually much better!We also end up at cool places few people seem to know about, such as a remarkable bookbinder, a local hangout with an incredible view that quickly became our favorite cafe in the city and an attractive, yet non-touristy, beach.We get a glimpse of real Lisbon life, in quaint parks full of locals hanging out, in hidden squares abuzz with everyday activity, in shops where the fruit and pastries are of the highest quality and the cheapest prices and in beautiful neighborhoods that don’t have well-known attractions to draw a crowd.It’s authentic. It’s extremely rewarding. And it’s incredibly fun.The real beauty of it all is that we don’t have to head towards the far outskirts of the city or to a small village an hour away from Lisbon (which would be wonderful too!) to make this happen. All we do is walk, for 5 minutes, away from the crowds of tourists.It’s that simple. Local travel experiences can always be had…at any time, in every destination around the world.It’s just up to us to have them.What’s your experience in touristy destinations? How do you get away from the crowdsA Rant About Travel, Awareness and Social MediaOh, no. No, no, no.That’s my reaction, all too often these days, when I go on social media.I’m sure we all have seen it.The photo of a travel blogger or ‘travel influencer’ in their cutest or most striking pose, wearing a short summer dress or going shirtless with beer in hand…while standing on the streets of an impoverished, war-torn village in Africa or in front of a run down shack on a dirt road in India.The photo is oh so perfect, oh so worthy of being shared across all social media platforms, and naturally, worth many, many ‘likes’.But wait a minute…what about the very real people living with very real struggles behind the crumbling walls and bent tin doors?When such photos are posted, is the traveler even aware that these people exist?Once upon a time, the focus was on the beauty, the eye-opening moments and the education of travel. Now, that focus has simply been replaced by the heavily filtered ‘beauty’ of our ourselves. Everyone wants the attention to be on them, not the actual destination.And there really isn’t much value in such infatuation with ourselves while traveling. Instead, it’s remarkably tone deaf and disrespectful to those places we visit.All it does is show a lack of awareness about our surroundings, which doesn’t match the supposedly positive and life-changing aspects of travel – the sharing, interacting, learning – that we travel bloggers and influencers claim to promote.Those ‘things’ are now only good enough to be used as a pretty backdrop for photos and stories about ourselves.Where is the learning?Look on any travel-related blog or social media profile. We all say that learning or education is one of the main, if not the main, reasons we travel in the first place. We all say it’s to interact with local cultures and people and to hopefully challenge and better ourselves and the world by doing so.But in many cases, that learning and genuine interaction is nowhere to be found.In my experience, learning is not rooted in selfish pursuits. Learning is not using or ignoring the difficulties and struggles of others for our personal gain (doesn’t that rusted shack with a family of 6 barely surviving inside look great behind my kapotasana yoga pose?).Genuine interaction isn’t a photo of a pre-planned handshake in pre-planned, picture-perfect clothes, with a pre-planned smile or forced expression of interest.And a casual mention of the surrounding reality – perhaps the devastation, the intense history or the general struggles of those that live there – in a two or three line caption next to our IG or FB photo…that’s not education.This village was bombed. The people now live among the rubble. So sad ?? But look at my gown!Umm…yes, again, what about those people around you? The people right there in the houses in the background of your photo?The world is not a movie set or a playground for us to stomp all over for our selfish desires just because we’re privileged enough to afford plane tickets.Such activity really has no lasting impact on humanity. It certainly doesn’t encourage others to travel around the world learning, affecting change and being a positive force. It encourages others to travel around the world completely ignoring their surroundings, because the most important thing is getting the best photo of yourself.I get it. It’s business for some. It’s a way to get attention and that attention turns into money or free travel and so on. But again, where’s the real value?And if it is business, it shouldn’t be hidden behind a disguise of learning, as so many do.Of course, there’s nothing wrong with taking photos of ourselves. I take them all the time. But I also try, like most bloggers, to provide some value and to not make everything I do all about myself. That doesn’t represent how I think travel, or social media, should be.And I don’t think I’m alone.My friend Jodi Ettenberg, from the popular blog LegalNomads, summed it up quite well by saying…“We are all imperfect, but that’s what makes us human. And that’s what social media should reflect: our collective imperfection. As travel writers, we should be setting an example by sharing what lies outside the glossy sheen of filters. It’s less photogenic, but it’s where the magic happens. And overall that makes it more aspirational, more raw, and more real. We owe it to our readers not to share some false, idealized version of ourselves. The good and the bad, the stories that get you thinking — that’s where you add value to the world in this space.”This is travelI know what you might be thinking. This is a bit too much. The times have changed, it’s the way things work now. It’s better to shrug it off or laugh it off and then carry on doing what we each feel is right.At the same time, this is why travel blogging and travel influencing is a little messy these days. It’s why more and more people tell me, “I stopped reading travel blogs.” I keep hearing the same reasons. There’s too much fluff and useless content, too little authenticity. It’s about showing off and trying to earn money, not about the actual benefits of travel. It’s no longer about helping others travel. Travel bloggers seem quite entitled and cocky. And so on.Perhaps I’m struggling with this because I’ve seen the change happen over the years and I remember when travel took on a very different meaning. There indeed was a time when it wasn’t about ‘look at me’ and was all about ‘look at this place, here’s what’s going on’ instead.After all, travel is without a doubt an awesome and life-changing endeavor. I’m talking about the moments shared with people that you otherwise would never have come into contact with. I’m talking about the genuine exchanges, the handshakes and hugs, the laughter and meals eaten together, the stories about a place directly from the mouths of those who call it home. It’s all about the authentic cultural activities that might not make for a pretty photo but sure as hell make for an education like no other. It’s all of the above, and the influence this has on our own lives.Just typing that paragraph gets my heart pumping and my skin tingling.That’s what needs to be shared. That’s travel.Focusing on ourselves first and foremost while ignoring the destinations, people and potential education around us – in other words, a lack of awareness – is not.