The Secret Life Of Walter Mitty Sucks. Watch This Instead.Am I the only one who thinks The Secret Life of Walter Mitty sucks?Actually that’s not true because my friend, Nicola, also thinks the same.“Iceland should win best supporting actor!” she told me and I couldn’t stop laughing.It was so boring the location should win an acting award. Are you heading to Iceland and need a visual inspiration? Watch Heima instead. It’s like the difference between eating gelato and eating ice cream. Gelato is so much better. Ice cream is just so basic.Soak Up The Joys Of Majorca, SpainLargest of the Balearic islands, Majorca (or Mallorca in Catalan, the language spoken by its residents) is in a lot of ways Ibiza’s big, sensible sister. Since the explosion of the “rave” scene in the late 1980s, those tourists of a certain demographic and certain appetites have essentially left Majorca alone. While this might be seen by some to imply that a stay in Majorca would be boring, a sizeable proportion of other tourists would disagree.Indeed, the explosion of tourism in nearby Ibiza has helped Majorca manage its visitors in a more measured way, giving it time to expand the valuable tourist industry while maintaining much of the traditional lifestyle and natural beauty which attract visitors in the first place. Broadly speaking, Magaluf is the island’s main destination for party marathons.As a result of this, there is a wide and varied range of hotels and serviced apartments for rent around the island which give access to Majorca’s unique landscape, history and living traditions. Here is a broad look at what is on offer for the discerning visitor.PalmaMajorca’s capital and regional capital, Palma hosts the majority of hotels on the island. As the airport is nearby, visitors not intending to stay in Palma itself are catered for by the airport’s short-stay accommodation. Hotels in the city itself are plentiful and often of modern design, having been built in numbers to cater for the burgeoning tourist trade. As the city overlooks the beautiful Bay of Palma, those hotels offering a bay view are among the most expensive.Palma has other attractions, however. In recent years, the district of Santa Catalina has emerged as a magnet for hip tourists looking for a new take on an old destination. Once considered a poorer part of the city, home to artisans and fishermen, its compact streets now host boutique, niche hotels and guest houses which look great on social media, especially with a rave review about the local seafood specialities and the area’s pan-Mediterranean vibe.MagalufA major destination for holidaymakers with package deals, Magaluf comes with a certain reputation not unlike Benidorm or some parts of Ibiza. However justified this reputation is, it has a definite downward pressure on the price of hotels. With prices as low as €15, a night in a hotel in Magaluf is easily worth investigating considering what is on the doorstep.Magaluf is a resort based around a number of small towns and villages, all of which lie on the western edge of the Bay of Palma. It also looks out more directly on the huge expanse of the Mediterranean and the north African coast. As well as a beautiful coastline, the good value of Magaluf hotels is especially welcome between late August and November, then April to late June. At these times of year, the weather is not oppressively hot, and neither is the resort overly burdened by the sometimes unwelcome summer influx.The MountainsOn the northern edge of the island is a range of mountains known as the Serra de Tramuntuna. A Unesco World Heritage Site, this part of Majorca offers a totally different tourist experience of that to be found on Majorca’s southern edges. As a natural fortress, the Tramuntuna was a valued landscape as it is not easily accessible and was easily defended. Consequently, most of the building in the region is old and very stout.This means that the accommodation is in buildings that were often small forts, or at least the villages they inhabit are built of stone, the streets are narrow and wind up quite stiff gradients. If this sounds like too much hard work, the Tramuntuna is probably not for you. If you’re fit and looking for a truly unique European location, it is perfect.Because the buildings are necessarily small and the rooms compact, prices are very competitive. With rooms starting from around €20 per night, this extraordinary part of the world is well worth exploring. Although not always possible, more and more of these establishments have en-suite facilities and Wi-Fi as standard.Mallorcan LifeTowns and villages throughout the island of Majorca have managed to retain a great deal of what is known by travellers as “charm.” This is because a lot of Mallorcans, especially outside of Palma, live and work in viable, vibrant communities which, although often in settlements more than a thousand years old, are increasingly able to accommodate modern tourism, with all that entails.A large part of Majorca consists of the main central plain, south of the Serra de Tramuntuna. This mainly flat, sparsely populated expanse offers the chance to stay in spectacular scenery in villages which are deceptively well equipped. Some Majorcan landowners built impressive town houses which have now been converted into near luxury hotels. A lot of smaller properties are run by the families who live in them as guest houses. At the top end of the geographic scale are fincas; country houses in estates with vineyards and often very large estates, which can be hired in their entirety. Just be sure to book early.Do You Fancy A Trip Off The Beaten Path?The world is full of resorts of all kinds awaiting tourists with their arms open. They are filled with hotels and restaurants, bars and pubs, and all kinds of vendors and little shops selling trinkets and souvenirs to everyone. This is all great but there is a problem. And the problem is that the resorts are filled with hotels, restaurants, bars, pubs, and vendors of all kind aimed at tourists – and this usually means that they are not authentic at all. But there are places in Europe where you can enjoy an unadulterated experience in the middle of nature but still be within arm’s length of amenities like paved roads, running water, and mobile broadband so you can update your social media accounts or play Vegas Palms casino games in the middle of the forest. And this place is right at the intersection of modern-day amenities and traditions: it is called Romania. And it’s more beautiful than you might imagine.Romania was off the menu for Western tourists for decades while it was under a Communist totalitarian regime. It has only joined the rest of the world in 1989, when the people banished the Communist government and the country transformed into a democracy. This transformation has led to a quick development of tourism in the country but one that has focused especially on its seaside – Romania has a 275-kilometer coastline that’s filled with resorts. But the mountains were mostly ignored – thus, there are many wonderful places in the country that are barely accessible but wonderful and unique in Europe.The Carpathians are the second largest mountain range in Europe, and half of its mountains are in Romania. Romania has the second highest peak in the Carpathians – the Moldoveanu peak at 2,544 meters. Most of the Romanian mountains are covered in forests, and are filled with indigenous and unique animals that roam free across the woods, like the brown bear (that often ventures into the country’s mountain cities in the winter) or the Eurasian lynx – Romania has a population of approximately 1,500 such animals. Besides, the mountains are filled with caves of all shapes and sizes – the Romanian Western Carpathians has at least 400 of them, many of these accessible to the public.The Romanian mountain tourism is not very well developed – and this makes it a perfect destination for hiking. If your idea of a great vacation is getting off the beaten path, this country is perfect for you – it has some of the most beautiful landscapes that are mostly untouched by civilization. Visitors will always find a welcoming room in the most frequented areas, though – most villages around the more popular destinations have pensions with many rooms to let. And they are surprisingly affordable, too.So, if you want to explore new places, meet a welcoming people and get off the beaten path, go to Romania. You will be surprised.Will You Ever Grow Tired Of This? Yes, but maybe not today. Or maybe never.Spring has always symbolised rebirth for me. New beginnings. New dreams. It’s like the world is having an orgasm, bursting with flowers and colors it kept all those winter months. How else could you explain this beauty?So besides enjoying all these beautiful cherry blossoms, what have I been up to lately?100-Year-Old GrannyIf you’ve been following me on Instagram you know that I have been quite busy obsessing about living a healthy life lately. It’s not that I have lived an unhealthy one before. It’s just that I wanted to live even healthier because my goal in life is to be a 100-year-old granny. So my health is my top priority. I obsess about the food I eat, how much sleep I get, minimizing stress and exercising enough. I enjoy cooking healthy meals so much so that I even plant my own vegetables. I have a mini-greenhouse full of super healthy sprouts. And my balcony is now filled with more vegetables, fruits and edible flowers. I can’t wait to harvest them in the summer!52 Books A YearI was on a social media break in the last 6 months or so and spent my time buried in books instead. I am so happy to be reading books voraciously again as I only got to read around 18 books or so last year. This year I want to read at least double that or maybe 52 books! One book per week. I already bought a dozen books that I will read next. It’s a mix of fiction and non-fiction books. I am currently stuck reading very thick books by Paramahansa Yogananda and Tim Ferriss. Once I’m done with both of them I’ll be able to read through my pile quickly. Speaking of reading, I broke my eyeglasses so I got this new pair of Gucci eyeglasses from SmartBuyGlasses and I couldn’t be any happier. Isn’t it beautiful?!? It’s too beautiful as a reading glasses if you ask me!Mindful TravelEver since I have started this travel blog, travel has become a full-time job. I’ve always been “on” and always thinking about possible blogposts, social media updates, taking photos of everything when I’m traveling. It was so exhausting. And sometimes traveling became less enjoyable because it was all about work work work. I know, first-world problems huh? But it truly left me feeling burnt out and unhappy. So since last year I decided to do something about. I travelled all over Europe, Africa and Asia and enjoyed every minute of it without the need to post on social media or write an article about it (sorry!). This was why I took a social media break as well. I just wanted to travel. No work. No social media. Just travel. And it felt so good. I think I have finally figured out how NOT to make myself insane with the demands of being a travel blogger.How about you? What have you been up to lately?The World Is AbundantThe last few months have been a spiritual awakening experience. It sounds weird or new-age hogwash to say it but I just feel it. I don’t know how to verbalize it. But there’s no denying I am living in a new kind of world. I’ve been trying to make sense of it and learn.That’s what I have been doing lately besides traveling. My absence online has been deliberate. I started questioning everything I am doing in my life and online including this dear blog of mine. I won’t apologize for it but I hope you understand that sometimes one has to run away from it all to reflect and digest things.I feel like Pocahontas. I alluded to it on my Facebook post last December. “Can you paint with all the colors of the wind?” Can you? Are you awake? Conscious? Can you talk to trees?Being surrounded by the beauty of nature has been a major part of my spiritual awakening. Plus being surrounded by magical friends (shoutout to you Vicky!) helped a lot. In the last months I have travelled with my friends to gorgeous Croatian islands and waterfalls, quaint Slovenian countryside, magical Sicilian coves to the dreamy Sahara desert and a quick trip in Madrid to see my gay friends for Halloween. And I am not even mentioning my annual birthday trip which we did for the last 2 months around the world with my husband.Here’s a quick photographic snapshot of our travels.The world is abundant in beauty. In everything. Hvar Island, Croatia. We rented this beautiful green vintage car and drove around Hvar island to swim in all its beautiful beaches and eat fresh seafood everyday. It was September and the tourist crowd was gone. It was the most perfect time to go. The island was ours. It was my second time to visit to show my friends, Vicky and Kim, around and it was as beautiful as I remember it. Vis Island, Croatia. Most people who go to Croatian islands stop in Hvar and never make it farther to Vis island which is a shame because this island is probably my new favorite island in Croatia. It’s so quaint and has equally beautiful beaches like Hvar. We stayed in Komiza as recommended by Ivan, my Croatian friend.And again, we spent three days driving around the island swimming in beautiful beaches and eating fresh seafood everyday. At night we would hangout and read a book or watch a movie or tv show. It felt so good to travel without any schedule. This trip was all about spending time with friends and enjoying the beauty of this world. Zadar, Krka And Plitvice National Parks. My friend Kim flew back to London after Hvar and another friend, Yunyi, flew from Colorado, USA to join us in this next leg of the trip. We stayed in Petr?ane near Zadar at Villa Nela, Vicky’s friend’s beautiful hotel by the sea. We drove to Krka one day and Plitvice the next day. Both beautiful places. I actually prefer Krka if you ask me because you can swim in it. Plitvice was a bit of a disappointment because the waterfall was not as impressive at this time of the year. Bela Krajina, Slovenia. We crossed the border to Slovenia and spent 3 nights at Bela Krajina exploring the beautiful Slovenian countryside. We stayed at Big Berry, a new mobile home concept located by the River Kolpa. It’s almost like a glamping site but not really. I refuse to call it that because the homes are unique, well-designed and not really a tent.I loved my stay here because I got to feed my body and soul with good shit. And by good shit I mean I hoarded high-quality honey and essential oils and ate only fresh, locally produced food from breakfast to midnight snack. Travel is sometimes bad for your body because you abuse it by eating and drinking shit and not giving it enough time to rest. Not on this trip. I decided I need to treat my body even while travelling. Favignana Island, Italy. I saw a photo of Cala Rossa (the cove in the photos) online 2 years ago and Favignana became one of my dream islands.WOW. Just wow. It was everything I imagined it to be and more. These photos do not do justice to how amazing this place was. We only planned to stay for 3 days but we ended up staying for a week! We cancelled all our other plans in Sicily and decided to extend and spend an entire week here. It was amazing. We spent most of our days in Cala Rossa swimming in its unreal waters that look like a swimming pool. It was so blue and so beautiful. And we ate some of the best seafood plates in Favignana. Everything was local and fresh! I can’t wait to go back. This is my new favorite island in Europe. Next to Ponza island. Sahara Desert, Morocco. We met up with my friends, Vangie and Vio, to celebrate Vangie’s birthday in Morocco. We went directly to Merzouga to experience the Sahara. It’s probably one of my favorite places right now. There was something so raw and magical about the desert. Hanging out with a local Berber nomad at night on top of a sand dune and talking about freedom and peace was everything. I should write a separate post about it although I told you that short story on my Instagram. Check it out below.We spent the rest of our days food tripping in Marrakech and enjoying our beautiful riad, Riad Les Yeux Bleux. It was so so so beautiful. The patterns, the colors, the layout. I was so obsessed with it. Well I am obsessed with the beauty and design of riads in general. No surprise there.I love Morocco so much and I do enjoy staying in Marrakech. It was nice to show my friends around in this city as it was my 2nd time to visit already. I could imagine living here for a few months. Maybe here or in another city in Morocco like Fez or Essaouira. Madrid, SpainFor Halloween, I flew to Madrid for a few days from Marrakech to meet my friends, Auston and David of TwoBadTourists, and hangout with them. This basically meant drinking wine all day and going to the best parties. We dressed up as Power Rangers for Halloween and I was Yellow Ranger of course. In the original show, Yellow Ranger was played by an Asian and Black Ranger was played by an African-American. So racist no?As per usual when I am with these boys I partied until 6AM and almost missed my flight. AGAIN. Like in 2014. Nothing changed.