8 hot tips for working from home like a bossSweatpants are cool again and showers are optionalLet’s admit it: the world is very different and a lot stranger than it was a month ago. Time is changing fast, and most of us probably are working from home if at all.A month ago we were going about our daily lives, going to work, enjoying a beer at the pub with our friends, going on dates with our beloved beau. Simple things like going to a hardware store all seem so luxurious now that much of the globe is in strict lockdown thanks to the coronavirus pandemic, especially here in New Zealand.As expected, a global shutdown is suffocating economies. Many businesses are going under or experiencing massive layoffs in anticipation of a rough year. If you’ve recently lost your job, I’m sorry. You are not alone, and I hope you can take some solace in the fact that we are all in this shit storm together.If you’re among some of the lucky ones who still have a job, likely, your job is now remote. Your socializing at the office days are officially on pause.Working from home is one of the weird privileges that gets put high on a pedestal and seems fantastic until you do it for more than a week. Now that we’re a month into this madness, many people are finding out that working from home is quite shit. And you know what? I feel that.And it sure doesn’t help that every time we open up social media, we’re blasted with lifestyle gurus and influencers telling us how to live our best lives at home.So you want to become location independent?As a professional who has worked from home for nearly two years, I get the frustration. Who cares if I can have three lunches a day if I want? I just want some socialization! But right now, we don’t have a choice.We can save lives by literally just sitting at home for a while, so whether you want to work from home or not, you better get used to it.I’m here to offer up my very best tips to help you navigate these uncharted isolation waters. Here’s what works for me.working from home1.  Set your alarm for your standard wakeup timeAnd then hit snooze at least four times before you get up.Forget all those think pieces that say that you need to keep your strict routine. The world is ending, your routine is out the window, and this is your new life now.You know that hour you usually spend eating breakfast, having coffee, and getting ready for the day? You can convert that time into extra sleep time. Why? Because you can eat breakfast and drink coffee while you work.So go ahead, indulge in that extra 45 minutes and don’t feel bad about it. Extra points if you a repeat offender with the snooze button, especially if it drives your partner nuts.working from home2. Shower whenever the hell you wantThose same think pieces and WFH influencers who tell you to shower first thing in the morning are full of shit. Shower whenever the hell you want.Maybe that’s in the morning. Perhaps midday. It might even be before you go to bed. Hell, maybe it’s not at all. Whatever your vibe, just roll with it.We’re all stressed out enough as it is. We don’t need anyone trying to shame us into smelling like a god-dammed daffodil when literally the only other living creature who will notice is our dog. Shower as you see fit, and if you’re not an everyday shower person, just pat yourself on the back, thinking of all that water you’re conserving. Good job, you little environmentalist!working from home3. Get dressed like you usually wouldAnd then take that shit off and put on your day pajamas.There is absolutely no reason you need to get all dolled up for not leaving the house. None. Zero. Zip. Zilch. Put on a clean pair of clothes? Sure, go on. But do not go down the path of self-shame if you want to wear your oversized sweatpants all day. This is your life now.You have nothing to prove. We all look like slobs. Even our PM Jacinda Ardern addressed the nation during a Facebook Live Video dressed in her coziest sweatshirt. If J-dern is doing it, I’m definitely doing it. Leave your judgment at the (virtual) door, thanks.working from home4. Your desk set up does kinda matterIn an ideal world, you’d have a perfectly curated corner of the house that makes for an ideal workspace. Unfortunately, we don’t live in a perfect world. We live in reality, and currently, the reality is decidedly shit. Am I right?I don’t have space in my house to have a separate office, so my workspace is a corner of the bedroom I share with my partner. Is it ideal to sleep and live in the same tiny bedroom for 16-18 hours a day? Hell no. Does it work? For sure.Having a separate office room can be great to help you focus and to get into your work mode, but for some of us, that’s not realistic, so we have to work with what we’ve got.working from homeHere’s what I recommend: find a comfy chair, and by comfy, I mean supportive.Don’t sit in your lazy boy all day because as great as that sounds, your body is going to be aching by the end of it. A kitchen chair works fine if that’s all you have. Roll up a towel and stick it behind your lower back to keep your posture tall. Scoot your butt all the way to the back of the chair. Your throbbing neck will thank me later.For my laptop workers out there, you’re going to find out very quickly that being hunched over a tiny screen is a real neck killer. My absolute number one best tip for working from home is (if you can) purchase a remote keyboard and mouse.If you have these two things, you can prop your laptop up on some books to get the screen eye level while still being able to control the mouse and type on the keyboard comfortably.working from homeFor your desk, an actual desk is ideal, but I have seen some very inspiring photos of laptops on top of recycling bins, ironing boards, nightstands. Do what you gotta do.Another piece of work from home equipment I can’t live without are noise-canceling headphones. I bought some second hand Bose headphones a year ago, and they have transformed my life. Whenever I put them on, I go into full productivity mode, even if I’m not listening to music. If you have any money to spend in this pandemic, put it into making your desk space a little more functional and enjoyable. Just trust me on this one.Lastly, candles. I like to light a candle during the workday. It smells good, and it’s calming. That’s really the only argument I have for it.working from home5. Take breaks, frequently and often, without regretWorking from home can be just as productive as working an office. In fact, it’s probably even more productive because you don’t have to have those stupid water cooler chats with Becca about her boyfriend’s kickball team.However…working from home during a pandemic is admittedly not likely to be very productive while you contemplate your mortality and the looming fate of humanity. With that said, don’t beat yourself up if you find yourself taking breaks throughout the day. Or better yet, stop trying to be productive and make the rest of us feel bad – even the NY Times agrees with me.Taking an actual lunch break away from your laptop, putting the washing on the line (yes, we still do that here in New Zealand), running the vacuum over the floors, doing 15 minutes of gardening. It’s ok to have small breaks throughout the day doing chores. Realistically, you’d have those same breaks at the office too.These “psychological segues” can help put you in the right mindset when you return to your workload making you more productive overall.working from home6. Go outside and feel the sun on your skinOk to preface, this tidbit is going to vary depending on where you live and the recommendations of your local health professionals. Above all, listen to them, obviously. Don’t listen to me, a babbling idiot on the internet, over them, trained medical professionals who have endured years of intense education.With that said, if you’re in a position to walk freely outside, do it every day. Even if it’s just a ten-minute stroll around the block. Don’t touch anything, don’t sit on any public benches, and keep your 2-meter distance from anyone you meet. The fresh air can literally be your savior during the lockdown. If you’re anything like me, you’re probably getting cabin fever already.working from homeSelf-isolate, but get that fresh air too. It’s not going to help anyone if we all lose our damn minds cooped up at home.With that said, for the love of God, please stop flooding the trails. Cancel your climbing trip. Don’t go backcountry skiing or tramping where you might put rescuers in danger coming to save your ass. If you have to drive to it, it’s not local. Get your fresh air but do it locally. Your Instagram fans can wait.working from home7. Fill the indoors with plants and green thingsIf you can’t go outside or if you’re an extreme germaphobe, try bringing the outside to you.Fill your house and desk space with your favorite plants. It seems like such a small and stupid thing to do, but it does make you feel better. Seeing a beautiful creature live and thrive in a time of crisis is an excellent reminder to all of us that things are going to be ok eventually.Us humans may destroy ourselves, but plants will keep the world spinning.working from home8. And don’t have kidsFull disclosure: I don’t have kids, but I can 100% recommend not having kids around during a time of pandemic when you’re forced to work from home.I don’t know what the legality is of this particular situation, but if you can somehow offload them to someone else during these trying times (is Goodwill still open??), I would highly recommend it.I’m kidding, of course, but in all seriousness, I have no advice for this as I’m a terrible babysitter and should not give out childcare advice to anyone ever. Anyone who is entertaining kids and managing to get their work done during this time deserves a Medal of Honor. Godspeed, you sleep-deprived parents. You are the true heroes.What are your tips for working from home? Have anything else to add? Spill!10 big life lessons I’ve learned from the backcountryI didn’t start out as an expert in the outdoors.I didn’t grow up doing orienteering races or learning navigation or given any backcountry tips. Aside from binge eating Thin Mints, I had nothing to do with Girl Scouts and couldn’t have cared less about hiking or camping.As I got older and more appreciative of my natural surroundings, I became more curious. I, like so many other people, began wondering how to exist in the outdoors despite having absolutely no skill set or knowledge to get me there.Like most people, I didn’t have thousands of dollars to spend on an outdoor education course so I had to learn the old fashion way: through many, many trials and errors. Living in New Zealand, I love spending my free time hiking and exploring our incredible backyard.Here are my top 10 lessons I’ve learned from spending time in the backcountry.1. Invest in your gearLook, I know it’s expensive.I live on a barista wage and I also can’t afford to splash out at every new piece of gear on the market. Despite that, I’m here to tell you that spending money on quality gear may save your life and make the outdoors much more enjoyable.First things first one of my best backcountry tips, NO. COTTON. IN. THE. BACKCOUNTRY.Get that shit out of here because we do not have time for that malarky. You’ll want to find synthetic materials that will wick away moisture and not drag you down and make you freeze to death if it gets wet. I, too, was dubious of the term “moisture wicking” when I first started exploring the outdoors because it sounds like a scam but trust me, it works.Merino wools and synthetic materials will take moisture away from your skin so you don’t feel damp and bogged down all the time. Your clothes will be damp but you’ll stay dry! Opt for light pieces that can be layered on top of each other instead of a few bulky items. Always bring a hat and gloves, even in the dead of summer because you never know when the weather will change.In New Zealand, it’s a guarantee that you’ll be walking through streams and rivers and down boggy valleys for long stretches at a time. I opt for quick drying trail shoes in the summer and waterproof boots in the winter when I know I can’t afford wet feet for hours at a time.I promise if you buy the good stuff and look after your gear, the expensive things will last you decades. If you break out the cost by the number of times you use your stuff, it’s actually pretty cheap! (FYI this is also how I rationalize buying anything I lust for but don’t really need).Aside from clothes and shelter to keep you safe, I would also highly recommend investing in a Personal Location Beacon (PBL or EPIRB). Remember those Life Alert commercials about elderly people falling in the tub and not being able to get up? This is the backcountry version of that.This is especially crucial when you’re on your own. When you set off the beacon, Search and Rescue (SAR) is notified and the rescue mission ensues. I know these are expensive but they are literally life-saving devices and you can’t put a price on staying alive. If you really can’t afford one or don’t think you’ll use it enough, you can always rent a PBL from the nearest Department of Conservation office.2. And test your gear before you goThere is absolutely no shame in wearing your new high tech hiking boots on a casual 2 km dog walk if that’s what it takes to break them in.Do not, I repeat DO NOT, bring brand new gear on a multi-day hike. Give yourself time to work out the kinks at home because when you’re 36 hours into a backcountry adventure, you won’t have the luxury of swapping out your gear for something more comfortable.This goes for other gear too, not just your clothes and shoes. Make sure you have set up your tent in your living room before you take it out. Test that you actually bought the right type of fuel for your gas cooker.These little details are not things you want to find out alone in the wild.3. Plan, plan, then plan some moreI can’t help it guys, I’m a mega-nerdy planner. I thrive off organization and am often the reception of multiple jabs and jokes for my super trusty, ultra-organized packing list of anything I might ever need in a backcountry mission.I try to think of every scenario for the upcoming days so I can be fully prepared for what’s ahead.What will I wear at camp if my day clothes have been soaked through? Do I have a pair of sandals I can slip on to go to the toilet when my shoes are dripping wet? How many hours will I be out in the day and how many calories will I need to consume to sustain myself? What is my Plan B in case my Plan A falls through? What will I do if I get to a hut and the beds are taken?I know it sounds anxiety inducing but it’s crucial to think through the trip.Mountain Safety Council makes it’s easy to plan your backcountry trips in New Zealand by identifying unforeseen risks and hazards you might not have thought of. Headed up to a remote hut for the weekend? Plug it into MSC’s trip planner.MSC’s tool brings finds the relevant alerts for DOC and MetService as well as the NZ Avalanche Advisory if you’re in an avalanche zone. By planning your trip through MSC, you can also easily print, email and share your plans with trustworthy friends and family via Facebook.MSC will tell you if there’s been a reported shortage of water at the hut or if there are any significant trail hazards to be aware of. By planning your trip through MSC, you can also easily print, email and share your plans with trustworthy friends and family.It sounds obvious but it’s easy to get caught up planning for a mission and then forgetting to actually tell people where you’re going and when you’ll be back.4. Know your water sourcesIn New Zealand, most high alpine water is safe to drink but if you’re going into an area where the water quality is questionable, it might be a good idea to invest in a water purifying system. I’m a fan of LifeStraws and Steripens. If you know the streams and rivers are safe to drink from, have a look on the topographic (topo) map to identify how many rivers you’ll come across in order to plan for how much water you’ll need to carry. If you’re staying in a hut, be sure to research if the hut has water or if you’ll need to carry your own in.It’s important you stay hydrated but let’s be honest it’s even more important you have a steaming hot cup of joe before your alpine start. Crucial!