How We Saved 75% of Our Income to TravelWe saved £30,000 for our first RTW trip and it was hard. Like titanium alloy hard. Titanium alloy edged with diamonds hard. We swore that we’d never be that frugal again – what possible reason could anyone have for putting themselves through such an ordeal TWICE?Six months after the end of our last amazing trip we were at it again.There’s a travel bug going around and we got a bad case of it. We wanted more – we wanted to do it forever and we wanted to start immediately. So we reduced our living expenses right down and managed to live off just 25% of our combined salaries, sending the other seventy-five percent straight to our savings accounts.This time, we managed to save over £23,000 in just 9 months and it really wasn’t that bad. Having had a taste of what’s out there, owning an iPod Touch suddenly doesn’t seem as important as getting to the party capital of Brazil.We aren’t rich by any stretch. We both earned below average salaries for the UK, but we chose to prioritise travel over buying ‘stuff’ and spending money on big nights out. Many people say they want to travel but they can’t afford it. We think everyone can if they want it enough. It may take some people longer than others, and you’ll have to make sacrifices, but the trick is simple – start saving now!10 Steps to Saving for Travel1) Record your spending – Start a spreadsheet and write down EVERYTHING you spend. Do this for at least a month (although I recommend it as a permanent habit). You can then see what you are spending a lot on and what you can cut out.2) Create a monthly budget – Allocate money to each essential area – mortgage/rent, insurance, utilities, food and transport etc. This is the minimum you can live off. Then allocate a ‘fun budget’ for each month for anything inessential (gym membership, meals out, socialising, buying clothes, gifts etc). It’s up to you how much this is, but keep it to the minimum. Ours was £50 between us, but you might not be able to go that low initially. Add up your essential and fun budget, and subtract this from your income. This is how much you have left to save.Salary – (Essential Expenses + Fun Budget) = Savings. (if this comes out as a minus number, you’re in trouble…)3) Set up a bank transfer – Once you’ve worked out your monthly savings, set up an automatic bank transfer from your current/checking account to your savings account for the day after pay day. This is an essential step – if the money isn’t in your account you can’t spend it. Your savings account must be untouchable.4) Increase the interest on your savings – Research the best savings accounts to maximise the interest you earn on your savings. In the UK Money Saving Expert is a fantastic resource for finding the best accounts. In the US try Get Rich Slowly. We earned over £1000 in interest on our first trip. We used tax free ISAs along with high interest regular savings accounts, and when these reached the limit, then the highest paying normal savings account.5) Stop buying things – It’s very simple, just stop. No more clothes, CDs, DVDs, whatever it is you’re currently spending your money on. If you want to go travelling, you don’t need any more stuff. Get creative – dig out clothes from the back of your wardrobe that you haven’t worn in years; join a library; borrow DVDs from friends; mend things rather than re-buying.  It actually becomes really liberating as you start to realise how little you need.6) Socialise cheaply – You don’t have to give up your social life, but look at ways to have fun for less. Invite friends around for dinner rather than eating out; go for walks; visit free museums; attend art gallery openings (free wine and nibbles!); go to the pub but only have one drink; look for free local band nights and festivals; keep an eye out for discount vouchers at restaurants and cinemas – the options are endless. Drinking less alcohol will really help reduce your spending. Use your fun budget wisely and prioritise what’s important to you.7) Reduce expenses – Keep going back to your budget. Is there any area you can reduce further? Switch utility and broadband providers to a cheaper deal; cancel gym membership and go for a run; eat less processed food and downshift your brands to reduce your food budget; cancel cable TV, magazine subscriptions and anything else inessential. As time goes on and spending less becomes a habit you should be able to reduce your fun budget too. Read Money Saving Expert’s Money Makeover for lots more tips to reduce your expenses.8 ) Sell your stuff – Boost your savings by selling your possessions. We all own things we don’t need, and you don’t want to waste money on storage while you’re travelling. Read our three part series on How to Sell All Your Stuff for our tips and favourite selling methods.9) Work together – Couples need to work together towards joint saving goals and support each other to reach them. I’ve always been a good saver but Simon certainly wasn’t. If he had money he’d spend it. But he made a commitment to saving for travel and let me take control of his finances. Joint accounts make this a lot easier. Baker from Man vs Debt is a passionate believer in the benefits of couples combining finances.10) Keep motivated – There are times when saving is hard. When you are struggling with your austere lifestyle, focus on planning your trip. Read blogs and library books about the places you want to go, plan exciting activities, look at photos on Google Images, and remember that it’ll be worth it!Saving may seem difficult at first but over time your mindset changes. You start to not want to buy things anymore, and spending money becomes a rare occurrence only for things that are worth it. It feels liberating to live simply because you are no longer so dependent on your salary – your stuff doesn’t own you.Travel is one of the most rewarding things you can do, and once you are on the road all the hard months saving will be worth it.How to Manage Your Money When TravellingYou’ve been saving hard and now you have a big pot of cash to spend on travelling the world. But how on earth do you manage your money when hopping from country to country? How do you access it cheaply and safely? What if something goes wrong? How do you stop yourself running out of cash halfway around the world?We’ve put together this detailed guide to managing money when travelling to help answer these questions, using our own nine years travel experience together with advice from other long term travellers from around the world.Open a Bank Account with No or Low International FeesThe main way you will access your money on the road is through withdrawing money from ATM machines using a debit card. You will find ATMs almost everywhere and it’s an easy way to withdraw money as you need it, and not have to carry around huge amounts of cash.The problem is that many banks charge high fees for withdrawals abroad. You need to check your bank’s fees and if they are high then change to a different bank account—it could save you a fortune.For example, Lloyds TSB bank in the UK charges a fairly typical 2.99% foreign exchange fee plus a 1.5% cash withdrawal fee (minimum charge of £2). So withdrawing £200 costs you £8.98! That’s a days budget in India or a night in a hotel with a pool in Thailand! You need to find a better option if you don’t want to give away your hard earned travel fund to the bank.Here are some of the best bank accounts for travellers that we’ve come across: 1WorldwideIf you have a HSBC bank account you can withdraw money from their ATMs around the world for free. The problem is that if you can’t find a HSBC ATM (and you won’t everywhere) then you are stuck with their high fees for using other ATMs, so it’s best to look at the alternatives.Most nationalities can open a Transferwise Borderless multi-currency bank account. We use it to get paid in various currencies (US dollar, Euros, Australian dollars) and can either spend it for free using the debit card online or in shops/restaurants or withdraw up to £200 a month for free.Their fees for transferring between different currencies are much lower than typical banks—see our Transferwise Borderless review for more details. For UK ResidentsFor up to date information on the best cards for use abroad see Money Saving Expert’s extremely useful Cheap Travel Money guide.The best debit card is with Starling Bank, a mobile-only bank account that charges no foreign transaction fees and you also earn 0.5% interest on your balance. It was much easier to set up that a regular bank account and we love the real-time notifications on the app when we use the card (great for security too). It’s the best option we’ve found for withdrawing cash abroad. The current best credit card is the Halifax Clarity credit card, which we use. It has no foreign exchange fee or cash withdrawal fee, but as it’s a credit card you’ll pay interest on the amount withdrawn even if you repay in full. Before we started using Starling with withdraw cash we avoided the Halifax interest fees by paying off the balance as soon as possible after the withdrawal. You could even add money to the card in advance.We also have a Nationwide Select credit card which doesn’t charge foreign exchange fees.Set Up Internet BankingWhen choosing a bank account make sure internet banking is an option as this is how you’ll manage your bank account on the road—keeping track of your spending and transferring money in and out.In the UK some banks have now introduced card readers that you’ll need to complete some transactions on internet banking. These are a pain to carry around but they do make things more secure and, since you don’t have a choice in using them anyway, make sure you take yours along.Link Your Current Account to Your SavingsYou’ll want to keep the bulk of your savings in a savings account and periodically move some over to your new traveller friendly current/checking account. This keeps your money more secure as it’s not all in one place and you wouldn’t lose it all if someone gained access to your account, and you can also earn interest on your savings.Although interest rates are low at the moment this can still work out to be a significant amount. In the UK see the best savings accounts on Money Saving Expert. You can save up to £20,000 tax free in an ISA. In the US see Get Rich Slowly’s guide to high interest savings accounts.The easiest way to transfer money from your savings to your current account is with internet banking. You could set up a regular transfer to deposit a certain amount of money per month or just do it as and when you need it. Make sure you test the transaction process before you leave the country to make sure it’s set up OK.Take Multiple Debit and Credit CardsWe recommend taking two debit cards and two credit cards. Bank cards can get stolen, eaten by ATM machines and blocked by banks and if you have any problems with your main debit card you won’t be able to access your cash, so a backup is essential.Choose your main bank account from the traveller friendly list above and have a second bank account as a backup. This could be your existing bank—it doesn’t matter so much if they charge high international fees as you’ll only use it in an emergency.If you are a couple with a joint account then take a card each for the same account as well. This has been very useful for us on the two occasions when we’ve had to cancel our card: once when the card was pickpocketed, and the other after our card details were stolen somehow and money taken from our account (luckily the bank refunded us the money). With our backup card we could continue accessing our money as normal.Even if you don’t plan on using a credit card it’s good to have just in case and you’ll need one to rent a car. Some people use credit cards to accrue frequent flyer points as well, but this only seems worthwhile in the US where credit card companies give you large amounts of points just for signing up.Availability of ATMsYou can find ATMs in most places around the world, but if you are going to a remote area check before you go. For example when we visited Myanmar/Burma in 2012 there were no ATMs in the entire country (there are now many) so we had to take all our money in pristine US dollar bills. ATMs may also be limited in rural areas in many parts of the world, so you’ll need to stock up on cash in the nearest city.One thing to bear in mind is that not all cards are accepted everywhere in the world. In nine years of travelling round the world we have only had problems with a cash machine not accepting Visa once or twice, but it might be worth taking a Mastercard too for times like these. It really depends on the area you are travelling to so do some research before you go.Getting New Cards AbroadAs we are travelling permanently it can be an issue to get new cards. If they are expiring soon we order new ones before we head to the UK for a visit and pick them up there (we use Simon’s mum’s address). If this isn’t possible we have had cards sent to us in Thailand using the normal mail with the cards hidden between bars of chocolate (bonus chocolate!) and had no problems.Consider Alternative Payment MethodsAn alternative to a debit card is using a prepaid card that you load up with money and then use just like a debit card. We haven’t used one but our friends did for their RTW trip and recommended it. We looked at the rates and as the fees weren’t less than our bank it didn’t seem worth the hassle.As an extra extra backup you could even keep some money in your Paypal account. Wandering Earl says that he does this and in an emergency you can always use Paypal to pay for hotels and flights on sites like hotwire.com.Take CashYou’ll want to take some cash. We don’t use our cash stash often but it’s important to have. Just recently we arrived in Mexico and couldn’t find an ATM that worked at the airport or in town—they had all run out of money. We used our dollars to pay for the bus at the airport then exchanged $20 at a money exchange place across from the bus station for the taxi to our hotel and dinner. Then the next day when we had more energy we went searching for an ATM that worked.US dollars are the most widely accepted currency and the best option. You could also take some euros which are popular in countries like Egypt. We just take a few hundred dollars with a mix of large and small notes. $100 or $50 bills often get better exchange rates but take some smaller notes too for tips and visa fees (in some countries you can pay on entrance in dollars). Make sure the notes are in good condition as some places can be fussy.It’s a good idea to hide a small amount of contingency cash in your backpack in case you lose your main stash.We used to travel with traveller’s cheques as an additional safe backup but we don’t bother any more.Inform Your BankBefore you leave home call your bank and tell them when and where you’ll be travelling, otherwise they may block your card due to suspected fraud.Unfortunately telling them doesn’t always help and your card might still be blocked. In that case give them a ring and you’ll usually get your card unblocked straight away. We pay for Skype credit and use this to call as it’s easier than finding a phone locally and international rates are low.When you leave on a long trip you still need an address in your home country to give to your bank, even if you switch from paper to online bills (which you’ll want to do). We use Simon’s mum’s address and phone number. Sometimes they call her if there is suspicious activity on our account and she passes the message on to us to call them.Set a BudgetBefore you leave you’ll want to create a realistic budget based on what you expect to spend in each country, plus a healthy contingency for unexpected extras.We have written about how to budget for long term travel which also includes our spending breakdown for our first RTW trip.For ideas of worldwide travel costs to help you set your budget you can read our travel budget posts, see the compilation of budget posts on Legal Nomads, or look in Lonely Planet guidebooks.Set a BudgetBefore you leave you’ll want to create a realistic budget based on what you expect to spend in each country, plus a healthy contingency for unexpected extras.We have written about how to budget for long term travel which also includes our spending breakdown for our first RTW trip.For ideas of worldwide travel costs to help you set your budget you can read our travel budget posts, see the compilation of budget posts on Legal Nomads, or look in Lonely Planet guidebooks.