Solo Travel for Spectacular Views and Relaxed Eyes I have discovered many new loves traveling solo.The most affecting of them has been a love of hiking and enjoying spectacular views.The search for these views has taken me to mountains that reach to the sky as they do in Patagonia at the southern tip of South America, and to mountains with flat, table tops that one can find in the high arctic in Northern Canada.In these times of self-isolation, I am reminded of these trips and the importance of changing the focal length of my eyes, of allowing the muscles in my eyes to relax and focus on something in the distance.Yes, I'm tired of looking at screens. I'm sure many of you are, as well. Too much screen time causes dry eye, eye strain, headaches, and blurry vision.In fact, I'm typing much of this article while looking out the window at the house across the street.On a walk along Lake Ontario this morning, I stopped and relaxed the muscles in my eyes and looked at the horizon. Lake Ontario is like an ocean. You can't see the other side. I looked as far as my eyes could see and, with much lower pollution levels in the city now, I believe I saw farther than ever.I hope that you find a place in your environment where you can, while self-isolating, relax your eyes with a spectacular view.To help you plan future trips with great views you might want to read Safe and Easy Hiking Destinations for Solo Travelers.And now, a few great views from my travels.There are many exciting, safe, and, if you'd like, easy hiking destinations for solo travelers. Hiking, trekking, or walking, as taking to wilderness trails has different names in different locations, is a great focus or addition to any solo trip.Hiking is a joy that I didn't discover until I was traveling solo. I was raised in major cities and city travel had been my mode with family, partners, and friends. It was on one of my first solo trips that I indulged a romantic notion that walking the Lake District would make me a calmer, more centered person. And it did, while I was there. But not in the long run. Back in the city I always pick up the pace and wait for the next trip out to the countryside.But it was that trip to the Lake District on which I discovered a love of hiking. This post is about safe and easy solo hiking destinations that I've discovered in my travels. As you will see from the list below, there are all sorts of experiences to be had hiking. From well-groomed, sometimes paved paths to narrow, craggy trails with hazardous roots and stumps, to mountainous routes that will take you to spectacular views, there are many kinds of hiking to enjoy. From Canada to Europe, from Patagonia to the Lake District, hiking has its own unique flavor and each of them is wonderful.Great Hiking Destinations for Solo Travelers in Europe and the UKEurope has a long tradition of hiking. Getting out of the cities and onto trails is a typical Sunday excursion. The Germans especially have a reputation for being long distance hikers. There is a romantic view of hiking in Germany. They actually called the route along the Tauber Valley from Tauberbischofsheim through to Rothenburg the Romantic Road. However, hiking is a common activity throughout Europe, especially where there are mountains. Here are the places I've hiked.The best thing about Iceland is its natural beauty. I don't think anyone would argue this point. Food is fine. The people, though hard to meet, are welcoming. But the landscape took my breath away. Whether you want an afternoon hike or one that covers many days, you will never tire of the landscape. It's also worth noting that there are not really any dangerous animals in Iceland.The magnificent Austrian Alps is the big attraction in Zugspitz Arena. There, the hiking trails are wide and well groomed. There are no rocks or roots to trip over. It's civilized and the paths are designed to take you from one place to another, from a lake for swimming, to a restaurant for lunch, to another for a beer. And along the way, there are wonderful views of the stunning Alps. Bavaria is probably the most traditional area of Germany you can visit. Think chalets with balconies and carved wood railings. Think of mountains and the famous Neuschwanstein Castle. There is hiking almost everywhere in Bavaria but for hiking and more I'd suggest Tegernsee, a small spa town about 50 minutes south of Munich and 90 minutes east of the castle. It offers plenty of circular hikes around lakes and in the mountains. For the end of the day, there are the spas and some fabulous restaurants including the Michelin 3-star Restaurant ?berfahrt.Walking (hiking) in the Lake District is where I first discovered that I liked hiking. The first day I was puzzled by it ? did I like it? But the next day I awoke eager to go again. This surprised and delighted me. There are over 100 different trails in the Lake District (many people make it their mission to complete them all) at various levels, making it a great destination for multi-generational families, serious hikers, and yes, casual hikers/solo travelers like me. The paths are very well marked and the views are breathtaking.Is it Time for a Solo Travel Makeover?It may be time to take stock.Whether you're twenty or seventy, life does not stand still.It ebbs and flows.Sometimes it's easier and sometimes more difficult. Sometimes you have room for your own interests and sometimes they are usurped by those of others. Sometimes you have money and sometimes you don't.Such changes also prompt adjustments in the way you travel, how often you travel, and how you enter a country and its culture. If you're finding a lot new in life, it may be time for a travel makeover. To help you along, here are five questions to ask yourself.1. Is life the same as it was five years ago? Will it be the same five years from now?As careers develop, there are better and worse times to take a career break. As children enter the picture, there are better and worse times for travel. Retirement opens up additional considerations. There are certain aspects of life that are predictable. Consider where your life has been, where it's going, and how you want travel to fit into the picture. Then fit it in.2. What health considerations affect your solo travel makeover?Illness, pregnancy, aging ? some health considerations are predictable. Be aware of these and plan your travels accordingly. Unfortunately, some catch you completely off-guard. Read БgShould You Stay or Should You GoБh to understand why my experience tells me that it is critical to travel when you can.3. What does your financial picture look like going forward?Oh, my thirties. I struggled through my thirties for all the financial responsibilities they meant to me. Consolidating our financial position was important in preparation for kids going to university. It may not be your thirties and it may be for completely different reasons, but most of us have times in life when money is more available and times when we have much less. Be aware of this and go when you can because there may be times when you absolutely can't.4. How are life's responsibilities changing?Children, aging parents, friends in need: we all have responsibilities to others that restrict our freedom. Can you see such responsibilities on the horizon? Perhaps it's best to travel now. Have you just come through such a period of responsibility? Why not treat yourself to some travel and rejuvenate?5. What enriches your life now?As life changes so do our interests. Perhaps you've transitioned beyond cooking kid-friendly meals and relish the idea of exploring a culture through its exotic food. Or, possibly, you now have the time to volunteer and wish to do so while traveling. Indulge yourself.Just as I like to remind people that they are not who they were in their teens, they are not as shy or inhibited, making them much more capable of traveling solo than they may think, I also want to remind you to take a look forward into your life ? and your travels. What does this look tell you?A few years ago I did this. It told me to travel more and stop spending so much time in cities and go to small towns.What will you learn?I'm writing about my experience of travel and COVID-19 over the last three days of my trip to Morocco, from the point of hearing that Бgwe should leave nowБh to actually getting onto my flight home.Though I am currently in Morocco with a bit of uncertainty about flights home, the pain I feel during this crisis is for the hotel workers, the vendors in the Medina, the tour guides and coach drivers, the restaurant workers and all who are being affected by the lack of tourists.For everyone in tourism, from the women weaving carpets in the Atlas Mountains (whose carpets won't sell this year, leaving a surplus in the market and making income next year precarious as well), to the employees of the tour companies with whom you book your trips, my heart aches.Many of us will be affected financially due to the virus, but those working in tourism will feel it first. And, while many in North America and Europe have some sort of financial cushion, savings or access to loans from family, financial institutions or potentially government, that will not be the case for many workers in Morocco and elsewhere, whose very survival depends on tourists.To give you a sense of the situation, in this hotel of 226 rooms, the 15 in our group represents more than half of the people staying in the hotel.It's difficult to reconcile what we see in the markets of Marrakesh with what we see and hear from home. Images on the news and social media don't connect with my experience here, where the markets are stocked and ready for an influx of tourists. From trinkets to, yes, toilet paper, the shelves of shops in the Medina are full. Though yesterday, at the Carrefour, it was clear that panic-buying has begun to happen here as well.To see reports of travel and COVID-19 on the news, looking at the pandemic from a global scale, with panic buying and images of thousands of passengers in airports trying to get home, it can look quite terrible. From my individual experience, it is not so, at least not so far.How to Get Home Was the Big QuestionMost of the time spent getting home has been waiting to find out how we'll get home. Fortunately, Marco and the staff at Just You were taking care of this.The confusion started on Saturday. Our original flights were to leave Tuesday but there were reports that the Moroccan government would be closing their airspace by Monday night. The scramble began. We basically kept our bags packed and ready to go on a moment's notice from then on.Sunday, we thought we could be going. Early morning we found that we weren't and were able to squeeze in one more excursion. We went to Essaouira, a lovely seaside town a few hours from Marrakesh. We were all happy to be going somewhere to get our minds off the turmoil and enjoy travel. I actually bought a painting.Monday morning we went to breakfast looking for information as to whether we'd get out that afternoon or not. It took until noon to find out that it wasn't possible but, through some magic, Morocco agreed to keep planes flying on the 17th and we would leave the next day on our originally scheduled flights.However, not everyone was flying with Just You. Two women had made their own flight arrangements and had to confirm whether theirs were still going. Fortunately, they had a family member at home who was their travel agent. All went well for them.Another woman had had plans to move on to Portugal after our trip. As the Canadian government's advice changed day by day, her plans changed as well. Just You was very helpful in finding her a route home. Though we left Marrakesh on different planes, we both had a transfer and one night stay at London Gatwick. I already had a room booked so I offered to share.Yes, we were somewhat stuck the last few days of the trip, with lots of uncertainty, but we were in a nice hotel. Efforts were being made to ensure that we could leave and get home.Once at the airport, we met many people whose return flights were much later than the 17th. For them, standby was the only solution.Tuesday morning, I awoke to an email from my husband and yet another article saying that Morocco was closing air travel to and from the UK at 23:59 that night. My faith lay with the embassies. I was sure they would have negotiated a means for repatriating their citizens. After all, what does Morocco want with us?We left for the airport at 9:00 am for a 2:30 pm flight. We didn't know what we would be in for and all agreed, better to sit there and have time to deal with whatever was ahead of us than stay too long at the hotel.When we arrived, the confusion made it difficult to determine what line to get in. There was no one to ask. I went to the front of the line and the men there had been waiting since 6:30 am. They didn't have tickets! I asked others as I walked back to my group and discovered some had tickets and some were there on a wish and a prayer. We waited there two hours when, finally, a representative came to declare the line we were in to be for standby travelers and another for those with confirmed tickets. We were in the wrong line. Ah well, there was a great shuffle and all got sorted.While in line I met two women whose tour was cut short by about eight days. On their way to the Atlas Mountains they turned back and were put up for a night in Marrakesh. The next day they were left to sort their way home to New Zealand on their own despite having booked their flights through a different tour company. Their confirmed tickets were not for another week and, of course, they had to get out much sooner than that. I have to say, hearing this story confirmed that the care taken of us by Just You was really exceptional.Once through check-in, security, and additional security at the gate, we boarded the aircraft only to wait some more. For some reason, we were not getting permission to take off despite there being very few planes at the airport.An hour and a quarter in, they announced that they would begin to serve refreshments. But, as we were in Morocco, there would be no alcoholic drinks. You can imagine the sighs and laughs at this announcement. People were happy, even a little giddy, as we seemed to be on our way. These little inconveniences were more a source of humor than anything.Two and a half hours after our scheduled departure, we got on our way. To great applause we landed at Gatwick another three hours later. Collecting our bags was easy as there was only one conveyor operating in the baggage claim area.I expect that tomorrow's flight home via Air Transat will be easy with a fairly empty terminal but I'll get there early just in case. If anything special happens, I'll add it to this post.I will be very glad to be home!But then, there's two weeks of self-isolation. Ah well, I can use the time to write and dream of future travel.Saving money for travel is always a challenge.But you have an option.You can make money as you travel and recoup at least some of the cost of the trip.Yes, there are a number of ways to make money as you travel whether your travel is short-term or long-term.Below you'll first find ideas for short-term travelers. All of these can be added to the list below that has ideas more appropriate for long-term travelers. I hope these tips help everyone travel longer, farther, and more often.Make Money As You Travel Short-termRent your place while you're gone. The sharing economy has created many opportunities for people to earn money. Renting your apartment or house on Airbnb while you're away could earn you hundreds, if not thousands of dollars. TripAdvisor also offers this service with its Vacation Home Rentals as does VRBO, one of my favorite sites for booking accommodation for travel. NOTE: Make sure you have a reliable friend or family member ready to receive your guests, answer their questions, and deal with any issues in your absence. Be sure to stay up-to-date on policy changes made by these companies.Get paid to drive to your destination. Cars and trucks are moved around North America by independent contractors, people like you and me, all the time. In some cases, your costs are covered; in others you actually make money. It's luck of the draw as to whether the destination of the car is of interest to you but it is a great way to save on travel and possibly make some money as well. In Canada, see Canada Driveaway. In the United States, see Auto Driveaway.Get paid for your road trip. This is cool and if it was in Canada I would definitely do it. With Roadie you can be a courier for packages from one part of the US to another. There are local gigs (that's what they call a trip) and long-distance ones. Most local gigs pay from $8 to $20 and long-distance gigs with over-sized items can pay up to $400. If I were to do it I'd let the delivery gigs plan my trip. There are various security checks involved for both drivers and clients.