HOW TRAVEL HELPS US KEEP LIFE IN PERSPECTIVENo discussion about returning from a prolonged period abroad is complete without thorough time devoted to reverse culture shock. And within the larger folds of a discussion about reentry, the conversation inevitably turns to perspective. Specifically, that people don’t seem to have any. Of course this isn’t a fair statement, but coming off of long-term travel to the developing world often leaves you in a fastidious state of mind. However, there is something to be said about travel also crystallizing your perceptions, honing suspiciously na?ve sentiments into firm sets of belief. Even within the context of culture shock, it can help keep life in perspective. And if you concentrate enough, it can help mold you into the person you strive to be.Travel, Perspective, and BalanceDuring my time in Burma, I spent a week in a tiny town called Hpa-An. Staying put for so long wasn’t in my plans, but something happened my first night in town that changed the connection I felt to the tiny village in Burma’s Kayin State. That something was this:I was exhausted when I arrived, coming off of a fairly ridiculous gauntlet of nightbus to daybus to tuk-tuk. I checked into one of two places in town licensed to house foreigners and joked with the other tourists that I was going to sleep at 7 and if they didn’t see me in the morning, it merely meant that I was planning to sleep thorough another day. I went to sleep at dusk and woke up to faint screams and panicked scurrying in the attic, the Rakhine boys who worked at the hotel trying to stuff their belongings into a bag. Disoriented, my mind in still cobwebbed from sleep, it didn’t register that the air was thick with smoke. I tumbled out of bed and ran down the three flights of stairs to the street. Several buildings were on fire, and given that much of the town was made of wood and that it had no fire station, people assumed the worst. Next door to the hotel was a doctor’s clinic and women ferried in and out carrying supplies to waiting trucks. Grabbing the most expensive ones they could find (a microscope, medication, laboratory equipment), hoping to save what they could. One woman stopped to catch her breath. “This is all,” she blurted out, roughly gesturing to the chaos behind her. The hotel owner explained: no insurance, no savings. If her clinic went down, so did everything she had.One of my closest friends returned from a contract in Ghana only to find he wasn’t empathetic to his friends’ complaints about the weather or traffic. They called him irritable; he called them snobby, told them they lacked perspective. His friends did have perspective – it just wasn’t along the lines of what he was prepared to digest. It was embodied differently: less stark, less earnest, but nonetheless present. I gently suggested that he lacked some perspective too; in straddling the world between Africa and the States, he couldn’t relate to either. Having returned several times during my years of travel, I understood where he was coming from. I remembered the frustration of knowing that my mental state didn’t jive whatsoever with those around me. I remembered looking out at the Brooklyn Bridge and thinking “I’m over this. Where’s the sticky rice?” But as I slowly seeped back into the world I used to know, those ragged edges smoothed and conversations became easier. I learned to enjoy the Brooklyn Bridge again. (But I still missed the sticky rice).Which brings me back to Burma.During that sleepless night as the fire spread through Hpa-An, the few foreigners in town ran out to help. Of course we did! We offered to carry water, to help evacuate, to carry goods from store to store. And as I ran around I told myself to remember this moment for when I got home. Why? Because I knew that in going home I would get caught up in the resentment of feeling like I didn’t belong. I knew there would be moments where I would fail to see the forest through the trees. I wanted to remind myself of the invaluable perspective I gained by being present in Hpa-An, that floating-above feeling of seeing one life as part of a wider tapestry.And you know what? When I lost all of my travel memories in a robbery back in the fall, this is what I remembered. Hpa-An. Hpa-An and all of those other hairline moments, tiptoeing the tightrope between life and loss, many of which I’ve never written about. It’s not a matter of sanctimony – believe me, I cried serious tears when I found out those photos (along with my laptop and camera and hard drives) were gone. But in keeping these moments close, in trying to cross-reference where I am with where I’ve been and the lessons I’ve learned, I keep my own perspective intact. Remind myself of what really matters in life. This isn’t why I travel, but it is important; it keeps me calibrated. Whatever aggregate frustration or culture shock or negativity I’ve built up, even when things feel like they’ve hit rock bottom, it could always be worse. This is one of the many gifts that travel gives us. We always say “try to put yourself in their shoes to understand.”  But when your travels necessitate that you do so – be it for a moment, or a week or a sleepless night in a tiny river town –  the comparison solidifies into something you can come back to, time and time again.LEARNING TO COPE WITH CHRONIC PAINIn 2013, I contracted a virus that I thought was the flu. It ended up being dengue, sometimes referred to as “breakbone fever.” The nickname is a reference to the levels of pain some people experience when they are in dengue’s throes. I expected my symptoms to subside once the active infection went away. After all, friends who contracted dengue, sometimes multiple years in a row, seemed to return to a sense of normalcy. Instead, the joint pain remained, below the fever pitch of “breaking bones” but nowhere near my old self. For a long time I waited for that “old self” to materialize, and for the pain to recede. It took three years to finally surrender to my present and admit that the pain isn’t going anywhere.** For those with lingering symptoms of dengue, my article of symptoms/treatment and long-lasting consequences may help shed some light on the reasons why. Pain, Fatigue and My New Normal“Pain is a message to the mind that something is wrong,” Anna Altman wrote in a devastating piece about managing her own pain and migraines. “To this day I guard a hidden hope that I will receive a new diagnosis, one that clearly explains the severity of my symptoms.”Like Anna, I don’t have a definitive answer about what to call the aggregate of pain that has taken up residence. However, I do have an idea of how it got there.I got dengue in Vietnam, while already having celiac disease. It hung out, and wreaked further havoc on my immune system. Doctors have offered up that the dengue triggered post-viral fatigue, which may or may not go away. It also gifted me with what seems like Raynaud’s disease, a disorder of the small blood vessels that reduce blood flow. When exposed to cold, my blood vessels go into spasms, which causes pain, numbness, aching and tingling. When I touch cold food or I am in cold weather, my hands and feet turn white, then blue. I tried making meatballs this summer, but had to stop because touching the ground meat was so painful that I stood in the kitchen in tears. I’m now the worst Canadian ever.To add to the list, I seem to have lost my fingerprints. I found this out when applying for a visa. After placing my hands on the digital fingerprint reader, all of my fingers had giant red Xs on them. “Oh!” said the man reading the scans, “You have no fingerprints!” Excuse me? I found a 1970 study noting that some celiacs have fingerprint atrophy, but mine were definitely intact pre-dengue. A mystery. Jokes about my going out and robbing banks abound, don’t worry.And finally, the most debilitating thing after the joint pain itself has been the fatigue. A deep, never-ending bone weariness that makes simple things seem like obstacles. And a restless sleep that does not provide respite from the haze of exhaustion.The combination of chronic pain, circulation issues, and fatigue combined to compress my resilience and made it difficult to see the forest through the trees. Emotionally, it felt like small disagreements loomed large. I found myself more reactive than before, taking things more personally.Instead of facing my days with resolve, I started curling into myself, warding off intrusions that might make things hurt more. I started fearing the next shoe that could drop, and wondering if I would be able to cope. Anxiety can be magnificently destructive, but when combined with chronic pain, it becomes paralyzing. Worrying about whether you can withstand more pain is a valid concern. But, as I eventually figured out, it only serves to make things worse.My distress was compounded by the fact that I looked healthy, even though I was in pain all of the time. “You seem great!” friends would say, glimpsing a photo on Facebook. Some would tell me to take supplements, or to just ‘think positive’ about the pain and live my life as I used to. They meant well, of course. But the comments reveal a dismissiveness about longer-term pain that other friends with ‘invisible illnesses’ struggle with also. It’s as if people expected us to will it away. If only we had thought about being more positive! How silly of us.The Spoon Theory explains the effects of invisible pain with very effective imagery. You only have a certain amount of ‘spoons’ in a day, and you use them to do things that most people don’t think twice about. Because for you, being in constant pain, even simple things require spoons. So everything you do, every decision you make about undertaking activities, it comes with the knowledge that there’s a spoon-like opportunity cost. And if you use up all your spoons that day, that’s it. You can’t do anything but rest, since you are so depleted.The problem is that for most people pain is temporary. When it becomes a full-time roommate, the things that used to help — going to the gym to work through it, climbing a mountain and communing with nature, going to a concert — become threats instead of pleasurable experiences. Some days you have 5 spoons. Other days 10. But the fact that you are counting is part of your illness. For many, that kind of sustained bracing is beyond contemplation.No matter the challenges in my life, be it someone who bet me I couldn’t get into law school or the other illnesses on my travels, I have always found a way around. This time felt different, because the pain was ongoing and frustratingly opaque.This word, untranslatable in English, is what I have struggled against these last years. A wistful longing for something that may never return. After so long, seeking an answer to ‘fix’ the pain was not helping.  I only turned toward healing once I forced that deep, destructive nostalgia out of my mind.Turning Things AroundIn her long, thoughtful piece about her daughter Carmen’s MS journey, Maria Bustillos interviewed a doctor named George Jelinek. Dr. Jelinek referred to the difference between “healing” and “curing,” with the central message that it really matters to take a more active role in the care of our own bodies. Ultimately, if you fall through the cracks of the medical system, or if you fail to receive a diagnosis that has clear, actionable treatment, you have to take some control back for your own sense of self and health.In the absence of finding a solution to stop feeling pain, I found hope in being able to reframe my attitude toward the pain. This included actively cultivating a sense of self-compassion, acceptance, and gratitude. These are all words that pre-travel Jodi would have taken a look at and rolled her eyes forever.Simply accepting what is unmanageable and not trying to control what you cannot change is a marked shift from my old way of thinking. It is also directly in conflict with the way I was raised in Western society. “Give up and just accept that things suck? Are you kidding?” But it is the only way that I have been able to turn things around. By focusing on my progress (or lack thereof), I was making a difficult situation more untenable. Now, I celebrate the small steps I have started to take instead of fighting for bigger goals.Rachel, a reader who contracted dengue and malaria at the same time, has struggled with issues of chronic pain and fatigue. Her journey mirrored mine, except that she was able to see a pain specialist in her home country. She and I have gone back and forth about our experiences, and our respective attempts to find joy in a life that is now different for each of us. For her, too, it has meant accepting the pain and not struggling against it. She has also actively sought out what brings her joy. “I had to try and look for joy and gratitude even when I didn’t feel it,” she wrote. “This became reflexive, and somewhat automatic.”Like me, Rachel wasn’t brought up to seek out gratitude moment to moment. But she too found that focusing on it, even if things hurt, helped shape the outline of her healing.When I talk about travel as a small woman, or as someone with celiac disease, I say that I can only live in the body I have been given. And yet I did not want to accept that very same fact when dealing with pain. But I have come around. For me, accepting what is unchangeable and not fighting what I am experiencing has meant the following:Making Oaxaca my home base for winter, but one I will keep thereafter. I am not in love with Oaxaca, the way I immediately loved Saigon, but it is a good spot to be. And Saigon keeps trying to kill me with respiratory and mosquito infections. Oaxaca is not far from my family in Canada, it’s delicious, it has a fascinating food culture, and I get called Juana here, which still makes me giggle. The area does have zika, but given my circulation issues, anywhere cold enough to not have mosquitoes will be a painful place for me to live. My neighbours (wonderful as they are) have screened in my apartment, and I wear repellant whenever I go out. I will still travel in the region, if I’m up for it, and I’m going to Brazil for a few weeks shortly for a wedding. But the indefinite no home base swath of my life has come to an end.Turning down fun travel opportunities because my health takes priorityFocusing on business opportunities that did not require movement, like the food art store, and my writing course.Looking for joy in smaller things, in the absence of the bigger ones I can no longer do.Not beating myself up for being less physically strong than before. This includes the fact that I’m susceptible to flus and colds, and take far longer than normal to get well.So Why Am I Sharing My Journey with Chronic Pain?This post was important to write for a few reasons.First, because readers are asking why it is that I am staying in Oaxaca for so long. I see many of my travel colleagues finding bases for a myriad of valid reasons. They’re tired, they’re wanting to focus on business, they’ve met someone great and want to be near them. For me, it came down to my health. It isn’t my spirit that is weary of travel, but my body. Reconciling those two needs has been a struggle.Second, because no doubt there are readers who have their own chronic pain issues, and they may benefit from hearing this story. We are all unique in our suffering, but sometimes it helps to feel less alone. It took me time to get past the twisted psychology of wondering if I simply needed to be stronger. No doubt others are feeling the burden of pain too.And third, because it’s all part of the journey. I’ve long maintained that this website exists to share the good and the bad, and reframing my relationship to pain and my own life choices is part and parcel of what I’m living.How I Learned to Cope With Chronic PainIt wouldn’t be a Legal Nomads post without some resources, right?The most important, most difficult, most fundamentally frustrating thing is this: you simply need to accept that this is your reality, and move forward from there. Even when moving forward feels like crawling on the floor, a millimeter at a time. Even when progress feels elusive, and you can’t bend your hands in the morning. The only thing you can do is care for yourself and try to find solutions that work for the body you’ve been given.I do want to add that I have experimented with a lot of different diet-based changes, supplements, and therapies. I have been tested for inflammation markers in the blood (thankfully they’re low), and thyroid disorders, and many other things. While I appreciate those telling me that I should try x and y thing that will magically fix it, with all due respect, I have tried many of those things.1. Daily meditation: I meditate both morning and night, and while there are times where I feel resistant to the practice, I cannot deny that it makes a big difference. Meditation has helped accepting what my body is feeling moment to moment, and also reduced reactivity in other areas of my life. I use Insight Timer app (free) on my phone, where I can select by topic there.