Travel EssentialsIf you have been following my blog you’ll know that I have been travelling for over a decade now, visiting every country in the world along the way. With this extensive travel to so many places I have had to pack my bag well over a thousand times now, so I have kind of got it down to an art and the same goes with my planning to make sure everything goes smoothly. I haven’t always been good at it, I’ll be honest about that! There have been many times I forgot to book a hotel or left my passport at home but those things no longer happen thankfully. Last night I asked my mates about their travel essentials, once we got past the obvious responses of a space suit and viagra, I got lots of interesting feedback from them. It was really interesting to see how they could save a lot more time if they planned properly. I thought my mates would know everything I did about travel essentials, because it surprised me so much I knew it would be a good idea to put this blog post together. Here are my travel essentials, some you need to pack and some you need to do before you leave home. Everything from doing your homework, creating a good budget, being prepared for emergencies and having things that make life easier are all needed when I travel.travel-essentials-to-pack-for-your-next-tripPlanningAs the saying goes – fail to prepare, prepare to fail – that couldn’t be more true when it comes to travel because with some good planning your trip will be a breeze and a great experience. If however you decide not to plan and just hope for the best there are plenty of things that can go wrong. Firstly, you won’t have a good schedule so you don’t know how long you’ll be in each place, that means you can’t book hotels in advance or train/bus/plane tickets. Secondly, that all combines to hamper you planning your budget – if you prepare all of the prior points you can easily draw up a budget which means you’ll have a good idea how much money you need to save up before you travel. Finding DealsThis is something every traveller should try to learn, finding good deals on hotels, flights and activities are essential for making sure your trip doesn’t cost an absolute fortune. There are always great deals out there, you just have to make sure you do your research. For flights, the best time to start looking is around 8 weeks before you fly – another good tip is to sign up to airline mailing lists because then you’ll be the first to know about promotions and can book them before others. For Hotels, I first use a comparison site such as Trivago which will show me the lowest price from all the major booking sites – then I visit the hotel site to see if the deal is worthwhile. Sometimes you can end up saving over $100 a night if you check all the deals out there, there are often early bird booking discounts if you book at least a month before your arrival date.TechTravelling with your technology can be anything from just a phone to your laptop. For me I always bring my phone, laptop, universal adapter and also a multi plug extension lead. My phone – absolutely essential for photos, maps, e-tickets, last minute bookings and updating my social media.My laptop – I need this because I need to work. So this allows me to update my blog and answer work emails on the road, it’s great earning money whilst I travel.Universal adapter – these are one thing every traveller needs to have in your bag. There’s nothing more annoying than arriving at your hotel late at night, when all the shops are shut and realising your plugs don’t match what’s on the wall.Extension lead – I love having one of these because the plug sockets are not always in the most convenient location and an extension lead eradicates that problem. You can also charge all your tech at the same time, so when you check out in the morning everything is fully charged.What are your travel essentials? Is there anything you always do before you travel and are there any items you simply can’t travel without? I’d love to hear all about your tips and experiences, it’s great when we as a travel community can share first hand experiences with others, that makes it easier for them to plan and have the best trip possible. All you need to do is pop your thoughts in the comment section below, I’m really excited to read everything you guys would like to share!Managing Money as a Digital NomadThe life of a digital nomad is full of surprises. A digital nomad is someone who makes their living remotely from any location that has a reliable connection to the outside world. These people can work from anywhere in the world managing online operations that bring in revenue streams that can support their lifestyle.This frees them from the 9-5 grind so many of us are familiar with. These are people that would much rather not be tied down to anything and any single place, instead opting to be a citizen of the world and go places whenever they feel like it.With this sort of income source, they can do just that. Digital nomads can be vacationing somewhere exotic and just open up their laptops and make the income necessary to keep being in places like that. This is a lifestyle that more and more people are aspiring towards in light of the improved technology platforms that enable this.Having said all of this, there are many amenities that digital nomads could use for an even more smooth experience. For instance, there are flexible money management alternatives for digital nomads, like this online bank review at investor junkie, that are helpful for those constantly on the move. This is just one of the many developments that help digital nomads manage money more easily, often through their phones or tablet.Online Banking and Digital NomadsA prominent benefit of online banking is the convenience that it offers to digital nomads. Whereas a traditional bank would only be open during office hours, online banking offers banking services at all times. So, no matter what time zone you are in vis-a-vis your bank’s headquarters, you do not need to revolve your day around the bank’s schedule in order to get something done. For digital nomads to manage their money more efficiently, flexibility is of course important with their situation.On top of this, a big benefit for digital nomads with banks that are online, is that although you lose out on the physical touch, if that is at all important to you, this also means that operational costs are drastically reduced and are as low as they can be without being completely free.In fact, a lot of services that usually come with service fees can be offered by fully online banks without charge because of their very streamlined business model. For those of us who do not care for this sort of human interaction and instead want to lower these expenses as much as possible, this is as perfect a solution as anyone can find.Specifically for digital nomads, what this means is that you can go to countries as remote and exciting as possible and as long as you have a reliable internet connection, you are not only able to make your living to continue affording to be in beautiful places, but you can manage that money from your laptop just as easily.Some online banks cater to digital nomads even further by offering debit cards tied to the person’s account that can be used for transactions in just about any currency you can think of. This is of course very important for international digital nomads as this take away a major headache of international travel, and that is having the correct currency in adequate amounts.One of the last things digital nomads, and tourists in general, want to deal with is not having useable funds in a country, especially if you find this out after you have eaten your meal and are not able to pay for it. Any good online bank, such as Chime Bank and others, are more than capable of solving this issue once and for all by letting customers use their debit card for just about any currency at a certain exchange rate. Not Having Your Style CrampedNot having access to your funds in any situation is not only something that might get you into legal and social trouble, but it is just plain embarrassing to be at the counter having asked for something from the store clerk and cannot pay for it because of some silly reason.You probably will not go to that shop ever again simply out of embarrassment. Luckily for you, there are people out there that have setup and maintain services that help prevent these unfortunate situations from happening. Good thing too, considering the fact that so many of us aspire to a lifestyle that risks putting us in these exact situations.Indeed, the proliferation of online banking in recent years, whether it be traditional banks establishing a complementary online presence to their regular one or new banks that reside completely in the virtual world, has made life far more convenient than it otherwise would be.Ultimately, this, along with many other conveniences made possible by technology in general and the internet in particular, will make the digital nomad life far more attainable and will almost certainly result in more people embracing this lifestyle as an alternative to what we have as a default today.In our increasingly globalized and mobile world, you now have to come up with reasons why you have not seen at least a bit of the outside world and all it has to offer, and hopefully you are not one of those people that need to answer this question.There is nothing better for a poker player than traveling the world while playing their favorite game. There are a number of amazing destinations exclusively aimed at poker lovers, some agencies will even make your main travel expenses free of charge as long as you commit to certain hours of play at the hotel casino.  Poker Travelling for Free There are poker agencies in Europe that offer specific packages for poker travelers during main events in Europe. How does it work? The agency makes deals with specific casinos and hotels where poker festivals, cash games and tournaments are taking place. The player is required to spend a minimum amount of hours at the tables while all accommodation is free of charge with additional discounts. The hours required are usually between 12 to 16 total play during the event weekend (with 4 hours minimum per day). All players must pay the guest price and receive a reimbursement during the last day of the event. The cash-back will be of 100% of the guest price. None poker players that travel with along will receive special prices for they stay. To keep track of how many hours a player has spent at the tables they are given a bracelet that is registered each time they sit at the tables. The bracelet will also include all the different perks. When the minimum hours are met, the player can go the main poker desk to claim the cash-back. Additional perks could include complementary food and drink, 24/7 buffet services, concierge, free lunch and SPA. Proper poker etiquette is suggested to enjoy the evening with fellow poker players. Common destinations include Prague, Bratislava, Nova Gorica and St. Julians. Some special events poker travelers can go to are The Battle of Malta, the Czech Poker Championship at the Savarin Casino in Prague. Every weekend there is a new festival happening in Europe. Players can decide if they want their stay for free or use that money on poker cash bonus. Other plans include booking the hotel only, book hotel + flight or just register to the event at no cost.  Remote Online Poker Nomads Online poker nomads can play with just the use of a laptop and a good internet connection. One of the main issues is the crazy time shifts. Sometimes one needs to stay awake at odd hours to play specific tournaments or the desired cash tables. This challenge is very unique for online poker players. This is why a daily regimen, healthy diet, and taking proper time-off is extremely important.  Side Online Hustles  Financing your trips just from poker can be risky business. As you can make enough money in one night to finance several months of travel, the reverse can also happen. Most nomad players usually build several different online side-incomes to compensate any losses or boost the earnings potential. Being an affiliate marketer, blogging, freelance writing, creating online courses or hosting a YouTube channel are all viable options for the typical nomad.  Valuable Poker Traveling Tips A second laptop, an extra battery, solar charger, mobile data hubspot, a VPN, and a great backpack for your gear is a must have. Be ware of weather forecast for the region you are going. The Caribbean is a popular poker destination, but each year hurricane season hits cutting down the energy and connectivity for a few days. Tropical areas are also hit hard during the rainy season.  Where to Stay Airbnb is the best option for a poker nomad since you will need the convenience of some appliances and privacy. TV’s make for a nice large second screen, the Wi-Fi and private bathrooms are a must. If you are planning on staying in a hotel make sure to ask about the connection and that your room is as close to the router as possible. Always check internet speeds before booking and don’t be shy to ask the manager directly about the connection stability, let him know your trade. Make sure no renovations or energy issues are going on during your stay. Top Poker Destinations for Poker PlayersLas Vegas, Nevada | United StatesLas Vegas hosts more than 32 casinos on the Las Vegas strip alone. Binion’s is one of the best places to play poker with tables starting at $2 to $4. Pros can visit “Bobbys Room” at the Bellagio which offers a great number of high-limit games. During my trip to Vegas I stayed at the Venetian with an incredible discount. Paradise Island, New Providence | BahamasOne of the most beautiful Caribbean destinations to play poker at the Atlantis Casino, home to the Poker Stars Caribbean Adventure tour and also known as Treasure Island. The casino offers three forms of poker, including Five Card, Three Card, Progressive and Texas Holdem. The location is full of water parks and beautiful beaches.Monte Carlo | MonacoOne of the most glamorous destinations to play poker, this is the annual destination for the European Poker Tour Grand Finale. Also includes different budget tables, no need to be a high roller to visit Monte Carlo. Visit the city for some F1 racing and delight with the many beaches, world famous restaurants and golden streets. Macau | ChinaDescribed as the New Vegas and part of the Asian Pacific Poker Tour. Must visit casinos include the Venetian, Babylon and Macau Palace. Los Angeles, California | United StatesOne place to visit is the Commerce Casino, known as the “World’s Largest Poker Casino” with over 240 card tables. Melbourne, Victoria | AustraliaHome of the Aussie Millions, the Crown Casino is one of the best poker destinations in the country along with the Melbourne Greyhound Poker Room and Poker Times Casino, that offers free poker nights and lessons.How To Stop Being Addicted to Your PhoneAre you addicted to your phone? Here are tips for using your cellphone proactively, and not letting your phone take over your life! Let’s break up with your phone and live more presently.When any new technology arises, critics scrutinize it and blame it for society’s issues. I mean, Aristotle was afraid that books were going to ruin society because no one would have to memorize stories anymore.Cellphones were originally demonized for how texting was “ruining language”, and now there is a lot of criticism around cellphones being problematic due to social media and internet use.However, social media can in fact be harmful and measures to use it wisely should be taken. Studies have found a correlation between time spent using social media and mental illnesses such as depressionHave you ever checked your social media right after an argument or a disappointment? Do you get on your phone when you have any spare minute? Including when sitting on the toilet? Do you check your phone without even noticing? Does an hour go by of you scrolling through social media before you even notice?Using our phones and social media is numbing. Whenever we check our phones or get a notification, we get a hit of endorphins. Social media and our phones are literally addicting. We use instant gratification to avoid feeling unpleasantness. Using this method of coping, we are actually ignoring our emotions, and ultimately avoiding many aspects of our lives.As a life coach, I am constantly hearing my millennial clients say that one of the first things they want to change is their addiction to their phone.Top 6 Tips For How To End Your Phone Addiction:1. Turn off your notifications for your social media and extraneous appsLess notifications, less temptation to check your phone and end up in a scroll hole. I know a couple of you will be tempted to say “But what if I miss something?” Trust me, you aren’t missing anything all that important. Any social media or app notification can wait. Especially with push notifications, you’ll want to make sure your notifications are off so you are not literally pushed to check your phone and spend time on it.It is also extremely helpful to practice putting your phone away more. To keep it in your purse or pocket instead of in your hand or on the table. Out of sight, out of mind.2. Utilize your screen time appI love the screen time limitations and reports on the iPhone! This is a great tool for being aware of what apps you are spending the most time on, and how much time you are spending on your phone. You can set time limits on your apps as well as limits on what times of the day you are going to be on your phone.Be aware that this system isn’t perfect- as it counts using navigation while you are driving as ‘screen time’.However, please remember that you are human. Social media/your phone are engineered to be highly addictive- no sense in beating yourself up. Just observe your behaviors and do your best to be mindful. Quitting any addiction is hard, so do not treat your phone addiction any different.