4 Tips for Traveling Solo As a ManWhatever your age, nationality or gender, traveling solo is one of the most rewarding experiences you’ll ever have. Whether you take off for months at a time or prefer to indulge in the odd solo vacation, seeing the world alone boasts many benefits for your mind, soul and (surprisingly) your social life.According to Solo Travel statistics, there are a higher majority of females who travel solo. This explains why there is so much information online geared toward women – information that doesn’t address that men travel alone, too. With this in mind, here are four tips to help you navigate your lone travels as a man while staying safe and having fun.Be FriendlyYou might think you’re the most approachable man in the world, but other cultures may perceive you differently. When you interact with locals, make sure you smile, remove your sunglasses so people can see your eyes, and you keep your language friendly and respectful. If you’re in doubt about the customs and it’s your first time in a new country, be sure to do some research before you go.For instance, you may need to know that it’s considered taboo to write in red ink in South Korea to avoid offending a lot of people. Traveling is a great way to make friends and meet new people, but you’ll want to avoid confrontation in hostile countries wherever possible.Don’t Be Afraid to Try New ThingsJust because you’re traveling alone doesn’t mean you should shy away from new experiences. In fact, you should be more inclined to try new things because you’re on your own. You don’t have anyone else to consider, you can live according to your own schedule, and no one will know if you make a fool of yourself! Now’s the time to try everything you’ve always wanted to but have never had the courage, whether that means eating sushi for the first time, breaking out of an RVA Escape Room or swimming with sharks.Stay SensibleYes, you should take risks and try new things while you’re traveling, but don’t push it. Just because you’ve never done a deep-sea dive before, doesn’t mean you should go for it with no prior training. Similarly, know that you’re not indestructible just because you’re a man. Men and women can both fall prey to muggers and pickpockets, so keep your wits about you and make sensible choices, even if it means going easy on the alcohol.Don’t Flash Your GadgetsAs tempting as it is to photograph everything with your smartphone or wear your fancy new watch at all times, expensive kit will attract attention. In certain towns and cities, that attention could lead to theft, and the last thing you want is for your precious tech to be stolen while you’re traveling. These items will only weigh you down, and if you’re always taking photos of everything you see, you’re not taking in the experience. For these reasons, it’s best to keep gadgets in your hotel room or tucked away in your bag whenever possible.How to Start Your Own Travel BlogEven without the potential of monetary gain, everyone who loves to travel should start a travel blog. There is no better way to collect your memories and stories together for a lifetime than working on putting it together through a collection of posts and even videos. By doing this, you are creating the single best souvenir you could possibly have. Memories fade, but your recollections of the day and the photos and videos you take will be forever. You can reminisce, and as you review what you’ve written and filmed, you too will remember better. To start your own travel blog, follow these steps:Create a WebsiteIf you are a budget traveler, there are free website options out there that will be the perfect fit for you. These options, of course, will have limited storage space meaning you will have to post your photos elsewhere, like Instagram or Facebook, but for written content, they will be your best solution. If you want to have your own domain name, rather than a hosted name, however, opt for a third-party hosting company that will give you more control and more storage space. From there you should install WordPress, and choose a theme that perfectly captures who you are. Update frequently and for yourself, and you’ll have the perfect time capsule of your journeys.Social MediaWe all likely have accounts on every big social media platform out there, but what is important for when you travel is to update them so that you can more accurately portray your travels. Be real and honest on Instagram, and use it as a photo diary you can share with your friends or even with the world. These platforms are excellent for drawing in new readers as well, which is why diversifying and posting on all of them can help you achieve the following you need to get sponsorships.One of the biggest and best ways to do this is through video. If you can create compelling stories through your own video platform, you have a commodity that can be easily marketed to companies who would potentially sponsor you. At the very least, you will have real moments captured in time to remember forever. That being said, you will want to make your YouTube page look as professional as possible in order to get as many viewers as possible. That is why you need to create a YouTube banner, a logo, and work on formatting your page through different albums to make your account look professional.Between your social media and your website, you should be able to capture your journeys in many different formats. This means that you will have a great time capsule for later in life when you want to reminisce about your travels. By documenting your journey for this purpose, you can keep having fun. It is only when you are trying to do it for someone else that the task can become a chore. Do it for you and your memories, and you will be able to enjoy each day and have the energy to work recording it at night in a diary.I was Asked: What is Your Favorite Travel Destination?Food. Culture. Popular landmarks. Bucket list. These are the easy keywords that describe our travel plans to our would-be favorite destinations. But then, every destination can be a favorite. Every place has its own charm and exquisiteness that make our experience certainly memorable. I have flown to 39 countries and visited countless cities…and yet, I don’t have any plans to stop. I want to keep exploring! So, I have often been asked, “What is your favorite travel destination?”In my head, it’s pretty straight forward to choose Norway. I am in love with Norway (there I said it!). Everything about this place is just perfect for me. I have already visited Norway twice and I always want to go back. One of the best memories I have in Norway is our challenging trek to Trolltunga. The five-hour trek was not easy, yet every step we took was all worth it, while being basked into the beautiful Norwegian landscape.France, specifically Paris, is also a favorite. Although travelers may have a love-hate relationship with Paris, mine is simply ‘love at first sight.’ It sounds clich?, but the moment I saw the Eiffel Tower, tears automatically rolled down my cheeks. The view was just perfect. With a hint of the reddish-purple sunset sky, everything went slow-motion (no kidding, I heard music as well). After this, I have visited Paris 5 times already, and in one of those trips I even stayed there for an entire month. I really consider Paris as one of my homes away from my own home.And the list goes on – Laos Hungary, Germany….ICELAND! You see, after realizing it, whether booking  cheap flights to somewhere in South East Asia or snagging a first-class ticket to New York, a place will instantly become a favorite destination not mainly because of your initial plans and expectations. What makes a destination a favorite and special is the people we meet along the way. It is how we connect with people who speak different languages, eat different food, and see the world in different ways. Traveling lets us build friendships and create lasting memories of your ‘favorite’ place.A picture perfect moment with your family, friends, hostel roommates, bus mates and even strangers you just randomly meet on a “free walking tour” will last for a lifetime. I always go back to the time when I spent hours in line buying ticket to enter Ch?teau de Versailles where I met two of my now closest French buddies, or that time we hunted for the Northern Lights around Iceland’s Ring Road sharing a car with a backpacker from Ukraine…or spending Christmas in the Philippines with the whole family after years of not seeing them. These are what make a destination a favorite of mine. The treasures that I keep, my lifetime souvenirs. PEOPLE = PRICELESS MEMORIES.How about you? What is your favorite travel destination and what is your best memory about that place?Touring Europe With Classic BooksSometimes a great piece of fiction can be the best inspiration to travel. I have written in a previous blog about my trip in Northern Ireland and how we visited location shoots of the famous HBO series Game of Thrones (favorite!!!!), and the truth is that it’s just one of many fine examples. Some of the best and most iconic works of literature to come out of Europe deal intimately with incredible destinations. And if this is the sort of thing that interests you, there’s something to be said for visiting these destinations with the appropriate books in hand.These are a few fun examples to think about.Many of us think of The Sun Also Rises as a high school curriculum book, but if you skipped it in school (or forgot its contents) it’s worth another read. As much as any other work, this book established Hemingway as one of the greatest American novelist, and as perhaps the best example of the power short sentences and simple words can have when arranged correctly. Telling the story of a group of expatriates in Spain in the years following World War I, it deals intimately with the town of Pamplona – a place Hemingway is said to have revered in his own time. In this case the author is so closely tied to the location that you can actually follow his footsteps through town in a sort of unofficially organized tour.This is a novella that can rub some people the wrong way, in that it largely concerns an aging author’s lustful fascination with a young boy. However, it’s also widely considered to be a terrific piece of writing, and it’s one of the more accessible examples of the fact that Thomas Mann is about as beautiful a writer as has lived in 150 years. The book follows the aforementioned aging author, Gustav von Aschenbach, on a retreat to the Venice Lido – a small island off the coast of Venice. It’s a wonderful place to visit regardless, but reading this book there you can get a sense for why Mann seemed to view it as the perfect place for his character’s retreat.When we think of Dracula today, we think of a sort of caricature of a vampire that can trace its inspiration back through innumerable projects. The recent film Dracula Untold attempted to form a darker image after numerous games turned the character into a sillier villain. One such game, the Dracula slot by NetEnt, specifically notes that the story has been adapted across theatre, film and TV many times, but took its own lead from the 1931 Universal film. That film in turn was inspired by Bram Stoker’s original novel – which happens to have been partially inspired by a real figure: Vlad Tepes, a ruthless ruler in 15th century Romania. Vlad’s castle still stands, but it’s the beautiful Bran Castle that’s become popularly known as “Dracula’s castle.” Reading the original novel while visiting this area and seeing the fortress is a remarkable experience.Birmingham, England (The Lord Of The Rings & The Hobbit by JRR Tolkien)Nowadays we tend to associate the lands of Tolkien’s masterpiece fantasy series with New Zealand. Indeed, the town of Hobbiton is a real place in New Zealand that many people visit. But it’s actually a far less spectacular area that is said to have inspired Tolkien. That would be the town of Birmingham, northwest of London. This is where Tolkien lived at times during his childhood, and by all accounts he made a sort of fantasy land out of the perfectly ordinary surroundings there. Visitors today can tour the “Tolkien Trail” to see sites like an old mill and a brick tower that inspired specific locations in the novels. If you’re a true literature enthusiast, or a big Lord Of The Rings fan, there’s something special about booking a room in Birmingham and flipping through the series.Florence Italy for First Time VisitorsThe Italian region of Tuscany really fascinates me. Ever since I watched the movie “Under The Tuscan Sun”, I told myself that if ever I’d get a chance to visit Italy, Tuscany should be number one on the list.A few years ago, I had a chance to fly to Florence from Barcelona and got my first taste of my Tuscan life dream. The birthplace of the renaissance and (known as) the home of Leonardo da Vinci, to be excited to start exploring this city (as an architect and artist) is an understatement.As someone who travels solo, the first thing I always do is to walk around the city. What I love about Florence is that almost every known sites are walking distance from each other. From the famous Duomo to it’s picture perfect Ponte Vecchio.Though they can be considered as touristy, these places are a must visit when your in town especially if you have a limited time in the city.Here are some of the places to go to if you are visiting Florence for the first time either on a solo trip or in a luxury vacation in Tuscany.PIAZZA DEL DUOMOI think everyone who visits Florence never missed walking around this piazza. The location of the famous Duomo Cathedral, you can just stroll around and be amazed at the details of the cathedral’s exterior architecture or listen to random violinist playing in the street.Tip: try to comeback in the evening as the plaza becomes very dramatic with the lights on.DUOMO ( CATTEDRALE DI SANTA MARIA DEL FLORE)I am putting this on the list because I missed this. I didn’t go inside the cathedral because I was lazy (ugggh—learn from my experience) and I regret this. To see the historical dome by  Filippo Brunelleschi (which is the largest bricked dome ever constructed) alone is a worthy reason why the Cattedrale di Santa Maria del Flore is a must visit.Tip: After visiting the cathedral, do a quick work out by climbing the Giotto’s bell tower to see a panoramic view of the whole city.PONTE VECCHIOThe Ponte Vecchio (old bridge) is the most famous bridge over Florence’s Arno River. Probably the most photographed spot in Florence next to the Duomo. Almost every postcard/poster shop sells a photo of this bridge. It has been a subject as well of many artists and painters in the city.What I like about this bridge compared to other European bridges is that, like the olden times, it still housed several shops along it but instead of butchers, shop spaces are now occupied mostly by jewelers, art dealers and souvenir shops.Tip: Go to Ponte Santa Trinita to get a postcard- like image of the Ponte VecchioACCADEMIA The Accedemia Gallery is well noted as the home of Michelangelo’s marble sculpture of David. At an overwhelming height of 5.17 meters, this statue represents the biblical hero David. It is not allowed take photos inside the gallery, but the image of David will definitely be imprinted in your mind. Also, there are several replicas around the city which you can take photos for souvenir.To know more about the story of David and how it was transported around the city, watch the documentary located inside the gallery (the facts about this history is very interesting).There are also other art pieces from a number of Florentine artists that are being showcased inside the gallery. Compared to the Uffizi (below), the Accademia is smaller and more specialized.TIP: Arrive early because the queue to get the ticket can be very long especially on peak season.PIAZZALE MICHELANGELOI mentioned about replicas of the statue of David (found in Accademia), one of those replicas can be found at the Piazzale Michelangelo.I really didn’t research about this during my trip, so it is safe to say that I discovered this accidentally. After a few days of roaming around the city center, I thought of just walking on the opposite side of the Arno river when I found a pathway going on a hilly part of the bank. Then —-YES I found myself standing at the piazza with the bronze replica of the David on one side while the panoramic view of the whole of Florence on the other.Tip: Just go here and you’ll never regret it.UFFIZIUffizi Gallery is the main art museum in Florence (or even in the whole Tuscany region). Think of it as the Louvre of Florence. It is located at a walking distance between the city’s historic center and the Ponte Vecchio.As the birthplace city of the renaissance period, you can imagine already the richness of the art pieces being housed in the gallery.Some of the famous pieces in the gallery are, Sandro Botticelli’s The Birth of Venus, Verrocchio and Leonardo da Vinci’s Baptism of Christ and Piero della Francesca Dukes of Urbino. Tip: Hmmmm because it is Italy’s most visited museum, booking ticket online is a must. I didn’t do this, so I waited almost 4-hours.AQUA AL 2Lastly, with all the walking done, definitely you will need to fuel your body. Italy offers one of the best local cuisines in the world and it will be shameful if you will not try the city’s best dishes.Everywhere you go will find gelato stores which prices ranges from 1 to 2 euros (YUM).For a whole hearty meal a friend of mine suggested a restaurant called Aqua Al 2. A very cozy Italian restaurant found at the heart of the city center. The best to try is there pasta platter (piatti primo sampler), a sample plate of 5 pastas served individually. This can also be shared.