How to Make Money While Traveling Long-TermWhen traveling the world on a limited budget, of course, the idea of earning money while traveling is going to cross your mind. Earning money while on the road will give you an opportunity to travel longer and experience more things along the way.With access to the Internet almost everywhere, it has become easier for travelers to earn money while seeing the world. Depending on your skills and how much time you are willing to give, it is not impossible for you to fund your travel expenses no matter how long you want to do it.As someone who left her high-paying corporate job, I couldn’t stand the fact that all of a sudden, my income would stop arriving in my bank account.I also realized that even though I would be traveling on a budget, it didn’t mean I should compromise my comfort. Rather, with comfort comes expenses. So, I decided to find ways where I could still work while doing what I loved most. This article is a starting block to consider the options you have for earning an income while traveling long-term.Here are some ways you can make money while traveling!Home OfficeWeb DeveloperBecoming a web developer is one of the best ways to earn online while traveling. These days, a lot of companies, both big and small, need websites and developer services.Most companies prefer to hire freelancers online as it is cheaper for them to do so. And, for a developer, you can earn major bucks or trade your services for free hotel stays and travel tours.These days, many long-term travelers fund their adventures through this online profession.Write for Travel WebsitesWriting for travel sites is one of the fastest ways to earn money on the road. Doing this will improve your writing skills and help you have a better perception of the country you are traveling. Websites such as Matador Network are willing to pay from $25 to $50 for an article depending on the quality and the number of words. That is not a lot but still, it is something, right?On top of this, a lot more people will get to read about your travel experience.AirbnbBecome an Airbnb HostSince you’re leaving your home or apartment to travel, you should consider listing the space on Airbnb and making some money to support your travels!Becoming an Airbnb host is simple and it can seriously pay off. Just check out this calculator to figure out how much you can earn. When you’re away, you can list your entire place to cover the cost of your own travel accommodation, and sometimes even more!Serving as an Airbnb host is quite flexible; you can offer a couch, room or your entire place if you wish.I understand that it can be worrying to have strangers in your home when you’re away, but Airbnb strives to mitigate any worries. All of the guests are vetted and they have liability claims of up to $1 million USD available.Learn more about listing your place on Airbnb here!Graphic DesignerBusinesses and brands around the world are always in need of logos, web design, or other design elements for their companies. Becoming a graphic designer, or continuing to use your graphic design skills, on the road is a great profession and can be performed from anywhere in the world!You could also create your own designs, templates, and prints, and list them for sale on sites like Etsy, Society6 and Creative Market!Computer WorkRun a Travel BlogWith enough time and effort, you can earn an income from a blog. However, unlike writing articles for other websites, starting your own website requires a bigger investment of both time and money.But, if you are consistent and are able to grow your audience, you can earn an income. Many successful blogs get at least $1,000 on a monthly basis through ad revenue, sponsored content and online sales.Open an Online StoreMany people who have online stores start them before they start traveling. You don’t even need to start your own website to start selling! There are websites like Etsy and Society6 that you can use to create your own store and promote your products or digital downloads. In fact, get 40 FREE listings on Etsy by signing up here.If you can’t manage an inventory while on the road, you can also consider affiliate sales on your own website. Affiliate products are items sold by a third party that you earn a commission on for marketing.For example, you feature a $100 camera sold on Amazon on your website. You make a sale and Amazon pays you $6 in commission. Most affiliate programs payout between 4-12%, so you’ll need a large audience to earn a significant income.Photo of Penguins on Boulders BeachTravel Photography & VideographyIf you’re into photography or videography, it’s definitely a dream to shoot around the world. And, there are a lot of individuals and companies looking for talented photographers.Consider offering your services for weddings, other travelers, and companies in the destinations you are traveling. Video can bring in some major bucks if you are good at marketing yourself and securing clients.You can also put up your photographs and video clips on stock websites like Shutterstock and get paid for every download. It’s advisable to build out an expansive library and to learn a thing or two about keyword searches and SEO before you go this route, but you can earn a lot of passive income.Teach EnglishIf you are fluent in English, then you have a great opportunity to travel while earning money at the same time. There are a lot of non-English speaking countries, especially in Asia, that are willing to pay a lot for teachers.To get started, the best thing you have to do is to get accredited with online resources. TEFLPros is an award-winning online certification course for anyone who is looking to teach English abroad or online and begin a life of teaching, learning and traveling to places that you can only dream of. TEFLPros is women-owned and operated by two teacher trainers who understand all the ups and downs of what it’s like to follow this path. TEFL certification is a requirement for most reputable schools and the TEFLPros course will not only make sure you are fully prepared to teach but also provides lifetime job assistance for all grads.This is more of a long-term option, but if you love it and become successful at it, making it a career is also possible. Being a short-term tutor is, of course, also an option.The most common countries that will need your service include China, Taiwan, Korea, and Japan.Blonde Working on laptopUse Your Own SkillsMany people normally overlook this one. A lot of travelers leave their comfort zone with the money they spent years saving without considering that they might already have the skills to earn money on the road.Some of the other skills you can offer while traveling includes hairstyling, massage, surfing, yoga, customer services, cooking, and others.MoneyMore Tips on Earning Money while TravelingThe idea of working while traveling has been developed over time. Before, the thought of earning was severely related to business travel, but now, you can travel while running your own business! But, of course, it’s not always as easy as it may seem.Here are some things to consider before living the dream of earning money while traveling:Ideas for EarningFirst of all, you need to know what you really want and what suits you best– do you prefer spending part of your day sitting in front of the computer, or would you rather do something physical?Technology has made it possible to sit anywhere in the world while earning money. There are a lot of ideas you can consider like the ones mentioned above, but there are also jobs that don’t require you to be connected all the time. Do you like being in the water? Work as a lifeguard. Do you like boats? Become a yacht stewardess. Do you like the party scene? Practice your bartending. Do you like kids? Work as a tutor! Browse more travel jobs here.Intention to EarnAre you planning to work while traveling because you are running out of travel funds, or do you simply want to keep adding to your funds? Knowing the purpose as to why you are working on the road will help you choose which job suits you best.Fraud AlertsWith many options to earn money while traveling through online resources, it is very important to be careful with the websites you’re using. You’ll find both free and pre-paid websites, so I would recommend only dealing with websites that don’t require or only require a minimal fee.For example, if you’d like to do freelance writing, some of the most trusted websites are Upwork, PeoplePerHour, and 99designs.Again, earning money online is not easy for everyone. The job needs to match your interests, talent, and abilities. You have to be realistic when choosing the job you want to do on the road.It is all about consistency and passion.10 Budget-Friendly Travel Destinations Around the World10 Budget Friendly Travel Destinations Around the WorldOne of the biggest misconceptions people have when thinking about international travel is that it is going to cost a fortune. The reality is that most people are able to travel, often times long-term, on a relatively tight budget.While flights can typically account for the biggest expense, budget accommodation and eating inexpensively can bring down costs significantly. And, most importantly, the actual destination of your trip can play a big factor in your budget.Here are my top 10 budget-friendly travel destinations around the world to visit on your next adventure!Plitvice Lakes National ParkCroatiaIn recent years, tourism in Croatia has thrived- and for a good reason! Croatia is my all-time favorite destination in Europe for SO many reasons.Whether you’re on a budget or not, you can enjoy the beautiful natural scenery at Krka National Park and Plitvice Lakes, or have the best foodie experience in the Istrian Region has to offer.Travelers get the benefit of a great exchange rate against the Croatian Kuna—inexpensive food, transportation and accommodation can be found throughout the region without compromising quality.Cycling the Death Road in BoliviaBoliviaThis landlocked South American country is home to some amazing sights! I spent a month in Bolivia volunteering and traveling to some of the top attractions- all on a super tight budget.Taking a 4-day, 4?4 tour to the Uyuni Salt Flats is truly breathtaking and an absolute must experience when traveling to Bolivia. The tour includes food, transportation, and accommodation and breaks down to less than $50 a day.Throughout Bolivia, you can also save money by traveling by bus. Transportation comes cheap but it’s best to plan for delays. Schedules aren’t always reliable and roadblocks happen often and can delay a single journey anywhere from a few minutes to a few hours.Surfing in Nosara, Costa RicaCosta RicaWhile Costa Rica sometimes gets a reputation for being an expensive and “touristy” destination, there are a few important factors for budget travelers to consider when planning their trip to avoid scams and expenses.One of the most popular routes of travel in Costa Rica is down the Nicoya Peninsula where beautiful beaches offer travelers great surf and chilled-out accommodation. Costa Rica also has plenty of less-traveled rural towns and beaches, like Playa Nosara, and even National Parks that offer plenty of activities that you can take part in- like zip lining!Budget hostels can be found in the form of basic hammocks for just a few dollars or dorm-style hostels for less than $15 a night.Helpful  TipRenting a car can be one of the trickier and more expensive experiences in Costa Rica, so be sure to research tips on renting a car before your trip. Also, avoid traveling in peak season (late November to late April) to avoid inflated pricing on cabs and hotels.Temples of Angkor WatCambodiaCambodia has long been an iconic Southeast Asia backpacking destination, and with the amazing temple complex of Angkor Wat and the stunning Tonle Sap Lake, it is a must-see destination.While traveling solo in Cambodia, I visited the cities of Phnom Penh, Siem Reap, Kampot and Kep– all on a $30 a day budget! You can expect cheap eats, hostel beds, inexpensive transportation and, often times, $3 beer and foot massage specials throughout the country.Honduras has the appeal of both a Caribbean and Pacific Coast, and is home to amazing Mayan ruins, traditional colonial hill towns and great street food.While I haven’t traveled the whole country, I did have an opportunity to volunteer with Global Water Brigades in Honduras during my junior year of college and discovered just how inexpensive it was.The Lempira is the local currency and is has a great exchange rate for US travelers. To put typical costs into perspective, a baleada (traditional Honduran pastry) is a great light lunch and only costs around 50 cents.GreeceThe ‘home of civilization’ as it is often called, has a history dating back thousands of years and countless destinations for the budget traveler—from the Parthenon in Athens to beautiful islands like Mykonos. While Greece has never been an extremely expensive country to visit, the current financial crisis has caused prices of accommodation, food and drink to drop tremendously, making NOW an ideal time to visit!Flying into New ZealandNew ZealandNew Zealand offers some of the most impressive landscapes, with jagged mountains, clear lakes, and steep fiords, all within a short distance of each other!Queenstown is located on the south island of New Zealand and draws the more adventurous crowd while Auckland, on the North Island, is closely located to destinations like Waiheke Island and Piha Beach.With current exchange rates being better than ever for the US traveler, now is the time to visit!Bus systems are one of the best ways to see the most of the country on a budget if you’re traveling solo. But, if you can round up some companions, splitting the cost of a camper, fuel, and accommodation is a great way to save money while making unforgettable memories.Phi Phi Islands, ThailandThailandThailand is a popular travel destination for budget travelers because it is relatively safe and inexpensive to visit.There are tons of activities to enjoy and some stunning natural and historic attractions, like island hopping around the Phi Phi Ley Islands or exploring the capital city of Bangkok.I spent about three weeks backpacking around Thailand on a super tight budget and managed to easily bring my expenses down to only $20 a day!Istanbul RooftopsTurkeyOne of my most recently traveled destinations, Turkey, is an extremely diverse country with so much to experience. You can spend your time walking around Istanbul and trying all the delicious street food or find some of the best free things to do in the city like the Hagia Sophia.Although it isn’t quite the inexpensive destination it used to be, you can easily stay within your budget with some planning. In Istanbul, for example, can find budget accommodation for under $15 a night, and meals for under $3 USD, leaving some money to spend on entrances to the must-see sights.Cenote Azul MexicoMexicoMexico is a beautiful and diverse country is one that has a lot to offer, from amazing coastal areas to superb Mayan sites. As a diving enthusiast, I loved visiting and diving in Cozumel!While destinations like Cancun and Cabo San Lucas draw a lot of visitors, exploring areas such as the Yucatan Peninsula make for a safe and is a much less expensive trip.Who doesn’t love a bargain? Finding a destination that is both exciting and wallet-friendly is always a huge perk. As we all start looking forward to the new year, it’s time to start dreaming about the incredible adventures on their way.The world is an ever-changing place. 2019’s buzzing hotspots can become 2020’s overcrowded tourist spots. That’s why my first step in planning travel is always to nab the latest tips from locals all around the globe.Getting good prices on transportation, food, and accommodation makes such a huge difference in how far you can stretch your budget. In fact, one of my fave things about life in South Africa is that my money goes so much further. A luxe hotel in Cape Town with an afternoon at the spa costs a fraction of what I’d pay in places like New York City or San Francisco. Whatever your budget is, affordable destinations give you an upgrade at every step.Ready to kick off the decade with a bang and maybe check out a few unconventional locales? Here are ten budget-friendly destinations to travel to in 2020.