34 Things I Know to Be True on my 34th BirthdayToday is my 34th birthday. Two months ago, my plan was to spend today in Thailand. It would’ve been yet another trip in my already-busy-rather-crazy schedule.And now that April, May, and early summer are wiped clean of flights and plans, I’ve settled into a much needed, perhaps healthier routine: Reflection.I’ve spent my life chasing answers, only to realize that life is really about the questions. And though I will spend my whole life learning, these are the things on this special day that I know to be true:1. It’s a waste of time to worry about getting older. Life just gets better with age, experience, and expression. Turning 31 taught me that.2. How we experience life is up to us. The best thing we can do is question absolutely everything, especially the systems in place, the governing bodies, and the status quo. Meeting people the world over taught me that.3. We are truly insignificant, spinning around one star in a vast universe, alive for the blink of an eye. So how big of a mistake can we ever really make? Looking at the stars taught me that.4. We are all driven by instinct, with a primitive mind that evolved to survive. Every animal on Earth shares this with us. Just because we are human doesn’t mean we are not animals, and just one part of the fabric of the earth. Time spent in the Galapagos taught me that.5. Most of us judge ourselves much more harshly than anyone else does. A retreat in Mexico taught me that. 6. Mother Nature does not need us, but we need her. Backpacking in the Alaskan backcountry taught me that.7. Failure is only real when we refuse to see it as a learning experience and opportunity. Eight years of travel bogging taught me that.8. Terrible things may happen to us, but letting it define our future keeps us in pain. The 12 steps taught me that.9. People are mostly good. Solo travel taught me that.10. When we let go of the need to be right, we can stop caring what other people believe, what religion they practice, and how they vote. What a wonderful world we would live in if nobody needed to be right or wrong. Spending time in quite different cultures taught me that.11. We are not just similar, we are the same. On the atomic level, we are one. Meditation taught me that.12. Being humble, acknowledging that I know almost nothing, and remaining open are the most important things I can do to enrich my life. Being alive taught me that. 13. We don’t need a lot. When we have everything we need, anything beyond that is just grasping, greed, and societal pressure. Being almost broke taught me that.14. Caring what other people think and making life choices based on the perception of others is the road to misery. Isolation taught me that.15. There may be no greater gift you can give to another person than your pure, undivided attention. Being an auntie taught me that. 16. Curiosity is one of the most beautiful human traits. When we let it drive us, there’s almost no end to the adventures that could unfold. Traveling in South Africa taught me that.17. There are plenty of misfits, people who want the world to be better, people who want to share and who don’t want more than they need. There can be a world without corporate greed, and it would work if we gave it power. It’s not naive, and it’s not unrealistic. Burning Man taught me that. 18. True power is not about money, controlling others, or having more. It’s about being in full control of your energy, your thoughts, and your actions. Tantra taught me that.19. Hospitality, beautiful moments shared with strangers, and a good meal are all we really need to be happy. Italy taught me that.20. Contemplating our own death can help us to fully live. Tomorrow is never guaranteed, so are we happy with the life we are living now? Are we truly at peace at the end of each day? This is a question worth asking often. Getting caught in a flash flood in Tanzania taught me that.21. Everything is always changing. Becoming attached to things just the way they are is the recipe for suffering. Looking at even the down times as an opportunity can set us free. Buddhism taught me that.22. Life is too short to wear clothes that are uncomfortable. Why not be comfortable? Lots of long-haul flights taught me that.23. Fashion magazines and ads have us chasing perfection, but this body is the only one I will ever have, and it deserves my love and appreciation. Loads of work on self-love taught me that.24. Self-love is a voyage rather than a destination, and it requires constant gentleness and understanding. Self-care practices taught me that.25. Stranger danger was a damaging thing to learn. Trusting strangers when our intuition tells us it’s alright to leads to the most wonderful adventures. Hitchhiking taught me that.26. It’s really important to get dirty. To remember we are creatures of the earth. We can’t love the earth if we don’t make an effort to know her. Backpacking taught me that.27. Fear is crippling, and it’s pointless. We can learn to do it anyway. We can learn to do it all afraid. Taking off to the other side of the world alone with a one-way ticket taught me that.28. It’s pointless to just dip one’s toe in. What’s the point of living if we don’t remind ourselves that we’re alive? The ocean taught me that.29. It’s not right that some people have so much and most people have nothing. Everyone deserves to be seen and treated like an equal. Confronting my privilege taught me that.30. If I don’t take action to shape the world in the way I want it to be, then why am I here? Quitting my old job taught me that.31. Negative things others say are really about them, and even if they seem like it, are rarely personal. It only hurts me if I believe them. Being on the Internet in this day and age taught me that.32. Everything I experience is up to me. Life is perception. Perception is reality. My first months without alcohol taught me that.33. Gratitude every damn day helps me see how lucky I am, and let go of what I don’t have. Days spent in hammocks in Mozambique taught me that.34. I will never have concrete proof as to why I am here, and I will never have answers to most of my questions. That’s OK. I can flow with the not-knowing. It keeps it all interesting. It keeps me hungry and foolish.Life taught me that.How Will Travel Be Different?When I worked in finance, we based our projections of how a company might perform in the future on historical data. A flawed method given nobody can know the future, but it was all we had.In the world of travel, trends and past data helped us plan for the future, however in this unprecedented time, with freedom and movement restricted in a global way, how can we have any clarity? Few could have predicted how things have gone so far, and since nobody has a crystal ball, anything people share about how travel will change is just an idea.The future is unknowable. Always has been and always will be. Yet I think on a soul level, there are some changes we will see in the future of travel. I might not know the when or how, but I do want a different why. These are my promises to myself and my hope for the way we will travel in the future:We’ll Pursue the AdventureWhen I started this blog in 2012, Instagram was in its infancy, and solo female travel was a new-ish concept. That’s not to say there weren’t plenty of solo female travelers — there were — but it wasn’t as widely publicized as it is now.I was traveling on a shoestring, sleeping only in dorms, eating street food, often taking only cold showers for a month, and living life on the beach. I’ll never forget taking night swims in the blue, glittery phytoplankton that lit up the calm, quiet South China Sea.Back then I was on a choose-your-own-adventure. I showed up with no plans, usually taking the advice of those I met along the way and making spur-of-the-moment decisions. I had no itinerary and no specific photo in mind.I miss that. Don’t you?Traveling changed along the way to accommodate instantaneous sharing, and while I would not have a career if that weren’t so, I think authenticity will become more valued. I wonder if we will see more people returning to the pursuit of adventure, not the story they’ll tell later or the photo they’ll edit to perfection. At least, I’d like to hold myself more accountable to the adventure.We’ll Value It MoreI’ll be the first to admit I took my free movement for granted. I knew I had passport privilege, and though I appreciated it, I never expected it would change in the blink of an eye.I went through my photos the other day feeling so much gratitude for the gift, then a question creeped over me. Did I value all of my experiences fully? I can honestly say that I did – about half of the time. The rest? I was distracted by something irrelevant, allowed much self-comparison, and didn’t thank myself enough for the adventure at hand.It’s true you don’t know what you got ’til it’s gone.We’ll Search Out Connections, not NumbersWe have an opportunity to travel more consciously in a post-lockdown world, searching for connections rather than approval through our devices. Maybe it sounds naive or altruistic, but travel was more about the connection in a pre-internet world. That wasn’t so long ago.We didn’t care if we were dirty and sweaty, had traveled all day in a cargo ferry, hitchhiked in the back of a pickup truck, or ate with our fingers on the beach without a camera in sight. We didn’t have to go looking for incredible stories that we later made seem effortless or spontaneous. We let the journey unfold.We’ll Do It For Our Own EnjoymentI’m going to be damn selfish again – taking solo trips in pursuit of nothing but freedom, joy, and adventures. It’ll be for me, like it was in the beginning, and I will make no apologies for it.Maybe if we all did that, there wouldn’t be as many quick trips and so many flights. We wouldn’t care about visiting every country in the world just to say we did it. We’d move slowly and consciously, just wanting to enjoy the moment. As anyone with a busy itinerary knows, you see fewer things and get to enjoy the moment less when moving so quickly.If we were to enjoy nature more and connect with the people – to immerse ourselves – our enjoyment would actually benefit the world, and each other.Maybe you came here to see a concrete idea of when the world would go back to ‘normal’, or to get clarity on when to plan again, and the truth is nobody knows. We don’t know when or how, we just know it will be different.What we can do is commit to being better travelers when we have the opportunity again.As Eckhart Tolle said, “Life is an adventure, not a package tour.”15 Wonderful Things to Do at HomeI’m sure most of us would rather be doing anything than being stuck at home (or maybe not? Maybe you’re loving being a homebody?), but regardless, spending large amounts of time indoors and solo requires a certain level of creativity to keep things interesting.Challenge accepted, though, because I’m determined to make this time fun, productive, and worth it. You too? Let’s dive into some of the best things to do at home that are healthy, engaging, and worthwhile:15. Try New RecipesI used to think I cooked a lot, but I’m realizing now that never in my life have I eaten so much at home. Cooking is a pain for many people, but it can be very therapeutic and even relaxing once you simplify it.Batch cook: I find that soups and pasta sauces do pretty well batch cooked. I tend to make two times the recommended recipe then freeze it for easier eating later.Cut time out: I’m a big fan of the Instant Pot. I am often able to batch cook all day with mine and then I’m set for two weeks with the food I’ve pre-made. It saves hours by pressure cooking food, and it tastes as though it’s been slow cooked. The Recipe Rebel has many Instant Pot recipes to inspire you.Minimalist Baker has a huge variety of mostly healthy and vegan recipes that require few ingredients. I love the gluten-free lasagna.14. Zone out on Relaxing Things to WatchNever have I been so clear on my need to watch things that do not remind me of a life I can’t have.I’ve been focusing on finding things to watch during my leisure time that either teach me something, or entertain me by making being stuck at home seem perfectly normal. I have a list of ten very satisfying and relaxing things to watch here from aquarium close-ups (trust me) to a woman who makes impossibly intricate flowers out of cashew buttercream.13. Shop Small and LocalNot everyone feels comfortable spending money right now, but I know there are plenty who do, and for whom retail therapy right now feels good. If that’s you, consider shopping small and local, supporting the small businesses and artists you love. The Targets and Amazons of the world are doing just fine, but the small jeweler you love, or the Etsy artist? They might not be doing as well.I fall into the small business owner category, and while my travel focus isn’t so helpful right now, if you’re interested in hearing about my (ethically manufactured and super cute) clothing line when it launches, you can sign up here (and get a discount for being one of the first to sign up!).12. Learn a New SkillThere’s almost no end to what you can learn on YouTube. From art to food to dancing and movement, here are a few free resources I’ve found:Learn calligraphy with whatever you have on you.Learn dance choreography: Some of these are really hard, but you’ve got time, right?Decorate cakes even if it’s not your birthday.Learn how to do your hair: I learned how to French braid from her 10 years ago!Learn how to do your makeup if you’re into that kind of thing.Learn the art of organization – I know I need it!Green up your diet with easy-to-follow tips.Learn how to paint because why the hell not?You can also find cheap classes online with Udemy and Masterclass, among any other skills you’d like to learn. I have a photography masterclass if you’re into it (hint, hint).11. Dance!I touched on this a bit in the previous point. Learning new choreography, even if, or especially if, you have no real dance experience, is a great way to make use of down time.I’ve never tried hip-hop dancing before but have always admired the quick paced and energetic feel of it, so I figured why not try to learn now? It’s free, I can do it from home on YouTube, and I don’t have to be in a class where I feel out of my league. I have watched the same video about 50 times now trying to learn, and it’s incredibly humbling, but also satisfying. I used to feel this way about pole fitness when I could still go to classes.If that’s not your thing, just dancing each day to music you love in the comfort of your own home, moved in whatever direction you choose, can be meditative. It releases endorphins, helps us stay healthy, and is loads of fun! Dance silly, dance ugly, dance like nobody is watching… because, well, nobody is watching.You can join me daily for meditation, dance, and breathwork here.10. Get Healthy and TonedJust because we can’t go to the gym doesn’t mean we can’t stay in shape! There are so many workout channels out there on YouTube. Piggybacking off of the dance suggestion, find a workout that you enjoy, and that doesn’t feel like work to you.I love the way Cassey Ho of Blogilates cheers me through the workouts and I’m a fan of POPSUGAR Fitness‘ variety as well. When I am feeling lazy, I like Bailey Brown‘s workouts because I can usually talk myself into something that’s only 8 minutes or so long. Then once I start, I can usually keep going.9. Learn a New LanguageOn the list of things we could never find time for: Learn a new language. We can’t travel right now, and frankly, thinking about it makes me yearn for a life I can’t have right now, but part of the joy of traveling is connecting with people from other cultures.What better way than to commit to learning a new language and finding a language exchange partner (someone who wants to learn English in exchange for conversing with you in your chosen language) via a Google or Facebook group search? People are more available now the world over than they’ve ever been.Some popular resources are Rosetta Stone, Duolingo, or Benny Lewis’ Fluent in 3 Months strategy.8. Make Art (Just for the Sake of it)I used to paint, draw, color, and write all day as a kid. I’d read books and let my imagination run wild. Once I grew up, I stopped feeling I had time for these things. Any moment not spent on working or studying felt wasted.How sad!I know I’m not alone, though, and for many, making a living overtook the fun things we did as a kid. If you’re ‘f-un’employed like me right now, why not put the time that used to be taken up by work hours into something creative, with no goal? It actually calms me and makes me more effective in my work endeavors.7. Commit to Your ProjectsEven though I joke I’m funemployed right now, fact is I’m still working. It’s just like back in the beginning of my blogging career when I was basically working for free, hoping it would work out. I didn’t anticipate returning to those days and often wondered how I had so much tenacity for no pay in the beginning.But here I am again! And amazingly, I’m having fun again too. I’m not worried about if or when it will pay me because I just want to do things I enjoy. Today that’s writing, tomorrow it’s making more rainbow moon phase leggings for Wanderbabe clothing. The next day, who knows?6. Meditate and Learn to Love Being AloneAlone time, without anyone else reflecting back at you or sharing their thoughts or opinions of you or your situation, is actually quite rare. Some of us are getting the first dose of it in our lives, and it’s wonderful!You will undoubtedly come up against some shadows, and that’s also a good thing. I wrote an entire post dedicated to being alone, sourced from 8 years as a solo traveler, much of it spent in remote, isolated places.You can also join my free, 7-day meditation challenge here.5. Pursue What’s Easy and AppealingHow beautiful it is to just do whatever we want to in the moment, without any ‘should’s’ or feelings of unworthiness, to just pursue our bliss. Lately, I’ve been giving myself permission to dance outside in the backyard on a whim, lie in the dirt and look up at the trees (Who cares if I’m dirty? I’m not going anywhere!), or spend an hour learning something new that I will probably never make a dime with – and you know what? It feels really good. I think we all need this in our lives.4. Breathe in Fresh Air and Go Outside!