LETﾕS HIT THE ROAD! 4 AWESOME, SOUTHERN FALL ROAD TRIPSEver since we moved back to Tennessee, SVVﾕs and my travel style has evolved. Gone are the days when I was an elite member of three different airline alliances; now, the majority of my state-hopping is done by carﾑand I prefer it that way. After all, road trips are way more fun, and Southern fall road trips are basically the best. Wouldnﾕt you agree?As the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?Being a control freak, I get a certain sense of pleasure out of charting my own course; plus, you get to skip the hassle of airports, TSA, delays, and cancellations and just go. With Tennessee bordered by eight states, itﾕs easier than ever for me to gas up the tank and go on a whim. In September, SVV, Ella and I buzzed over to Barnsley Gardens for a wedding. Earlier this month prior to my European sojourn, I zipped back down to the mountains of northern Georgia just for the night to see my five-year-old bud Mayhem (and her parents).The trees were awash in colors, and we loved strolling the main street of the tiny town in which her grandmother lives, visiting the candy store and checking out the fall d?cor that seemed to pop up in every storefront. Even though it was just for 24 hours, it was the perfect road trip.As the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?Ever since SVV and I started traveling as a pair a decade ago, weﾕve been loyal to Enterprise Rent-a-Car, mainly due to the prices often being lower and the ease of booking (plus, the electronic check-in and staff make any ﾒissuesﾓ ridiculously easy to fix), so itﾕs fun to team up with them to talk about fall travel. Year after year, September and October seem to consistently be our busiest months travel-wise, and thatﾕs because itﾕs finally shoulder season when temps fall along with the price of hotel rooms, not to mention the crowds.As the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?Gone are the days when everyone owns their own car, too; in fact, many of my city-dwelling friends in Seattle, San Francisco, Austin and beyond have opted to save on the cost of monthly car maintenance, payments, and insurance; instead, they simply rent one whenever they feel the urge to head out of down. Even my sister and her husband went to our local Enterprise outpost in my hometown of Tullahoma to rent a car to drive to a wedding in North Carolina last week. It couldnﾕt have been easierﾑand they both were able to keep from putting miles on their own vehicles.Next question to consider: Where to go on your Southern fall road trip?Personally, SVV and I been fortunate enough to have taken some most excellent road trips over the past couple years, but there are still plenty that top my list for fall months. Note: All drive times are from a starting point in Nashville, Tennessee.Auburn, AlabamaWhile my father went to school in this great Alabama college town and weﾕve been a handful of times, thereﾕs no better time in Auburn than at the height of football season (OK, maybe the year they were national champions would have been better, but stillﾉ). The weather is balmy and glorious, the trees are changing, and some of the best gamesﾑlike the annual Iron Bowl against Alabamaﾑtake place during this time. Plus, Auburn is seeing a bit of a culinary boom with a few notable new restaurants, like The Hound and The Depot (both owned by my childhood pal Jana), having opened in recent years.Drive time: 4 hours, 30 minutesAs the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?image via Auburn and Opelika Tourism BureauThe Outer Banks, North CarolinaIﾕm a fan of going to the coast during shoulder season; I donﾕt like braving crowds of beach-goers, which is why heading to the coastal Carolinas would be perfect in the off-months (and itﾕs not too cold yet to sit out in the sand with a beer in hand). Iﾕve never been to the Outer Banks, and this area is off the beaten pathﾑat least for me, being based in the Nashville areaﾑthat driving is really the only way to reach them in a reasonable time frame. Bonus: If youﾕre a North Carolina newbie, you can tack on stops in some of the stateﾕs best towns, like Asheville, Raleigh and Chapel Hill, along the way.Drive time: 11 hours, 40 minutesAs the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?image via Outer Banks Visitors BureauThe Natchez Trace ParkwayDid you know this scenic parkway stretches 444 miles from just west of Nashville in Middle Tennessee all the way down to Natchez, Mississippi? SVV and I are exploring the famed Natchez Trace Parkway over the course of the year and couldnﾕt be more excited for all the adventures that way. You can drive it over a weekend orﾑas we recommendﾑtake it more slowly, really diving into the history and the culture of this U.S. icon.Fall Colors on the Natchez Trace ParkwayDrive time: 8 hoursOxford, MississippiPumpkin patches, apple pickingﾑand impressive Southern literature. Iﾕve always wanted to make a trip to Mississippiﾕs most cultured town (and the home to William Faulkner, not to mention Hotty Toddy!) to see its charming square and tailgating mecca, the Grove. Of course, with the Southern Foodways Alliance being based thereﾑand so many of my globetrotting writer friends making the fall pilgrimage to Oxford every October for SFAﾑyou know why I really want to go: to eat all the delicious food the town clearly has to offer! City Grocery, Iﾕm coming for you.As the temperatures drop, so do the prices, and it's never easier to travel than the off-shoulder months of fall. These 3 road trips from Tennessee are on my radar these autumn months. Where all are you hoping to travel?image via The Paris ReviewDrive time: 4 hours, 30 minutesOnce youﾕve got the car and destination settled upon, next up: lodging. While Airbnb is a great way to find last-minute accommodation if youﾕre flexible, Iﾕm also a fan of Hotels.com and the app Hotels Tonight, which allows you to search for unsold hotel rooms at a discount.Which are your dream Southern fall road trips? What do you want to do? Who would you go with?CITY DOG GOES TO THE SMOKIES: A SEVIERVILLE WEEKENDElla here, back to share some more of my pawsome adventures!In addition to my regular scheduleﾑnapping, squirrel hunting, monkey de-stuffing, more napsﾑIﾕve spent some time bopping around the state of Tennessee with my parents this summer and advising them on what they write and photograph (i.e. more ME). Itﾕs a tough job, but some pupﾕs gotta do it!Itﾕs nice to find so many places like Sevierville and Knoxville to be pet-friendly, because by God, why wouldnﾕt you want more of my kind in your life? I simply canﾕt relate to businesses that donﾕt allow dogs in. After all, you humans are far more vile than we of the superior breed are when it comes to carrying germs! Ick.Early in June, Mom and Dad had me co-pilot a week-long trip to East Tennessee where we spent the bulk of our time in Sevierville, the gateway to the Smoky Mountains. Now, I turned seven years old not long ago, and this was my first visit to the Smokies. How rude! Can you believe they kept this beauty from me for so long? Itﾕs practically a pupﾕs playland!We made our base out of Hidden Mountain Resort in a lovely little cabin that allows my kind to inhabit it and enabled me to keep my nap schedule pretty regular.There were rocking chairs in which for me to soak up that Southern summer sun and a view to match the cabinﾕs charm, not to mention plenty of green surrounds.I stayed behind while Mom and Dad went zip lining, horseback riding and moonshine tasting (blech!), enjoying having the entire cabin to myself.In the early evenings, theyﾕd come relieve me from my naps and take me into the Smokies for a little playtime with Mother Nature.Sevierville is an awesome place for a pup like me to vacationﾑthey even have a brand new dog park right next to a river!Smoky Mountain Vacation: Planning the Perfect Weekend Escape to Sevierville, Tennessee with Your PupI was bummed I didnﾕt spot any black bears on my tripﾑprobably lucky for the bears; I would have totally terrorized themﾑbut as they say, next trip I suppose.Smoky Mountain Vacation: Planning the Perfect Weekend Escape to Sevierville, Tennessee with Your PupI definitely wonﾕt let seven more years pass without me returning to the Great Smoky Mountains, thatﾕs for sure.ANATOMY OF A FREQUENT FLIER: HOW I PACKPeople assume because of the high volume of flights I take, I must be one Hell of a packer. This isnﾕt necessarily true, especially because many of my trips are in combination with others and itﾕs downright impossible to pack light (e.g. in 2007, over a three-week period, I left NYC and flew to Iceland for a week where it never seems to be warmer than 40, then straight to Oktoberfest for a week where it was surprisingly warm then unexpectedly dropped 30 degrees and began to rain puppies and kittens, then all the way back to Tennessee for a wedding I was in, where it was still very mild + I had to pack dresses and heels for the various eventsﾉneedless to say, my suitcase was massive!).I get e-mails from people wanting me to share my packing ﾒsecrets.ﾓ Now, I donﾕt think Iﾕve come to any conclusions that havenﾕt been written about over and over again, but since Iﾕm leaving today on an eight-day trip to another continent in which I need a casual, warm-weather outfit for every day, as well as a ﾒbusiness casualﾓ outfit (which I take to mean FUN! DRESSES!) every night, and I managed a pretty stellar cram job (all in a single carry-on-sized roller!) if I do say so myself, I thought Iﾕd take this time to share my thoughts.Roll your clothes. I take this same approach to organizing my drawer, as it saves a ton of space, plus things donﾕt seem to wrinkle nearly as badly. For some reason, rolling versus folding makes it much easier to find what you need. Pack empty plastic grocery bags or baggies to contain dirty clothes.Pick a general color scheme. This could be hard if youﾕre gone for weeks, but my general rule of thumb (and Iﾕm a garish dresser with a lot of bright colors in my wardrbobe) is to choose one neutral color that all my outfits will matchﾉfor the most part. I donﾕt tend to wear a lot of black, so I usually try to pack things that will all match one brown/tan pair of shoes and purse. In this case, I packed two pairs of dressy flip-flop sandals, one in silver and one in gold (so theyﾕd pretty much match anything) and just one purse, my white Coach bag, that really will go with everything Iﾕve brought.  Confession: I did kind of cheat this time, because there are two dresses that have black detailing, but I just threw in a light black cardigan that occupied no space whatsoever and can pair them both with the silver sandals. But generally, I stick to all things that match browns and only ever take one pair of heels at most (this time, none!). Not because I donﾕt love stilettos as much as the next girl, but they just take up too much room.Pack delicates in a ziplock bag. Iﾕve taken to rolling my underwear, bras, socks and, in this case, bathing suits all into a one-gallon ziplock, then poking a hole in the bag, squeezing out the excess air and rolling it tight (kind of like those fancy, overpriced spacesaver bags you can buy at Target, only cheaper). Does this save a lot of space? Probably not (particularly because I usually just cram spare socks and panties into any remaining slot, like shoes, as it is). But it does save my sanityﾑinstead of frantically unpacking my bag in search of undies every time I get somewhere (often on my assignments, Iﾕm in a different city/country/hotel every night it seems), I can simply remove the bag and find what Iﾕm looking for without messing the rest of my suitcase up.Wear your heavy things. Since I work out every day Iﾕm home in San Francisco, Iﾕm often overly ambitious when traveling, thinking Iﾕll get up at 5:30am before I have to meet the group for breakfast, and hit the gym. This time is no different. I only ever take one set of workout clothes, though, because in reality you donﾕt actually have to wash them after every session (particularly if youﾕre just doing an hour on the elliptical here and there). Since Iﾕm only taking a carry-on bag, Iﾕm wearing my running shoes on the plane this time to conserve space (Iﾕll just swap them for plane socks en route for the sake of comfort). Ditto for my lone jacket, which Iﾕll probably roll up into the overhead compartent unless itﾕs really chilly.Prepare a Travel Kit. I have a kit full of essentialsﾑsleep mask, earplugs, ear buds, Band-aids, nail clippers, Advil, Benadryl, eye drops, Afrinﾑthat I made and house in a small plastic box; itﾕs surprisingly compact and permanently resides in my carry-on. That way itﾕs ready to go every time I travel, and Iﾕm not likely to forget it.Know your flying rules. It still kills me when I see Facebook and Twitter updates (oh wait, you didnﾕt know? Iﾕm now on Twitter! You can blame Aliﾉand Susanﾉbut follow me here! Camels&Chocolate wouldnﾕt fit, so I had to think of something else and thus went with my childhood nickname) or am behind someone in line who gets pissed at the ticket counter person when she finds out that, oh noes!, sheﾕs now being charged $25 for a first bag (or whatever that particular airlineﾕs policy may be) and tries to object. Um, hello! Yeah, the baggage fees SUCK (and no, they have absolutely nothing to do with an increase in fuel prices last year like the airlines claimed, in case you didnﾕt know, as barrels of jet fuel are typically purchased up to five years in advance), but these rules have been in effect for nearly eight months now. Theyﾕre nothing new, and they donﾕt work on a case-by-case basis. So quit your whining. Youﾕd also be surprised how many people still donﾕt account for the 3-1-1 liquid rule (in laymenﾕs terms: one quart CLEAR ZIPLOCK bag, one per person, liquids no more than three ounces in size; once I stupidly took a CLEAR makeup bag that zipped shut and they made me throw it away at security, I kid you not) and hold up the security line by arguing with the airport employee. DONﾕT BE THAT PERSON. (Truth be told, I actually donﾕt do what they say at all and surrender my liquids at the security belt anymore; rather, my eye drops, lipgloss, etc. (though always three ounces or less) are dispersed throughout my bag, SANS ziplock bag. And theyﾕve never once tried to search my bag after itﾕs gone through the screening. However, just to be safe, I always keep a ziplock bag or two handy just in case I have to pull a last-minute liquids packing job.)Bring snacks. It absolutely chaps my hide that airlines are now charging for peanuts on domestic flights. Even when Iﾕm flying international, I find the food service subpar, so I always take granola bars and ample 100-calorie snack packs (the oatmeal raisin cookies and chocolate toucan graham crackers from Trader Joeﾕs are my favorites) to hold me over. (Hey, Iﾕm a growing girl!) Plus, Iﾕve had so many connecting flights that arrive after the terminal is closed for the night (wtf, airports? Is it so much to ask to keep ONE cafe open all night?) and didnﾕt leave again until the morning, that I will never again travel without sustenance.Dress comfortablyﾑand warmly. Duh. But so many delusional travelers still seem to think if you don the stifling business suit and pointy-toed shoes, youﾕll be upgraded. Not true (particularly as now in lieu of filling first and biz class seats with those already booked in economy, airlines like Delta are opening them up for last-minute upgrade purchase at the ﾒbargainﾓ price of $250 or so). I have a pair of GapBody yoga pants that are the softest things in the world, and (since I think jeans are among the most rigid, uncomfortable things you could put on your body), I wear them on nearly every flight I take. I then throw on a tank and a long-sleeved J. Crew tee and top it off with a fleece or denim jacket and pashmina (I donﾕt know about you, but Iﾕm ALWAYS cold on flights). And because some airlines are even charging for blankets now (Iﾕm looking at you, JetBlue!), or else not stocking nearly enough, I finally invested in my own cozy pink Brookstone travel blanket (plus, a commercial pilot friend told me that they often donﾕt even wash the blankets between usesﾉewww! If they are, however, wrapped and sealed in plastic, you know theyﾕve been drycleaned). On a semi-related note: If youﾕre in economy but check in early enough, you can often snag one of those coveted extra-foot-of-space exit row seats by just asking (just make sure theyﾕre in the rows that decline; sometimes a sole exit row on each plane will have non-reclining seats). It used to be that you could book these seats when making your flight reservation, but for some reason, the airlines have either stopped allowing this or begun to charge for them in advance.Know your rights. This one came to me in the 11th hour, but BFF/partner-in-crime Lemon (who will be visiting me in just a week, weeee!), almost got totally screwed by Delta when they canceled her flight over the holidays and rebooked her daaaaays later. Unlucky for Delta, sista knows her shit (plus, she got her super-genius lawyer brother on the phone to read her Deltaﾕs Code of Carriage, which she then cited to them in order to get her money (2x the cost of her ticket) refundedﾐin cash!). Read her full account of how it unfolded (and how she kicked ass) here, and follow suit should you face a similar dilemma. If all else fails, and the airline wonﾕt listen (it happens, too often), contact the Mother Teresa of Travel, Chris Elliott, who has helped both Lemon and me out in many a time of need.Keep a copy of your itinerary in your checked back. This insightful one comes from Mrs. Who: ﾒOne thing I always do is have a complete itinerary typed and packed in my suitcase in case it is lost. I thought everyone did this until I mentioned it recently and everyone was shocked they had never thought of it. If your luggage tags are lost, they have no way of finding you. And, even if they have your address, they still donﾕt know you are on that cruise shipﾑwithout any clothes to wear!ﾓInvest in one really great piece of luggage, author and fellow globetrotter May Vanderbilt adds. Iﾕd have to agree. For Christmas 2007, my mom gave me this amazing three-piece Delsey set in powdered blue (pictured below), and it has changed my traveling life. Itﾕs sturdy and easily recognizable on the luggage belt. Plus, the carry-on with its various nooks and compartments is AWESOME. Previously, I always used red or black luggage, whichﾑshockerﾑare the most common colors used by other travelers. The blue makes it easy to spot (and harder for someone else to make off with), though on one recent flight back to San Francisco, someone on my flight actually had the same bag! She ran after me as I went through customs to make sure I didnﾕt take hers by accident (I hadnﾕt; I ainﾕt that dumb! Still, she was wise to check before I got any further).