Long-Term Solo Travel for Women: 16 Profound Ways It Will Change YouSolo travel for women. Traveling alone. Independent female travel. Going round the world. Taking a gap year. Adventure travel.Call it what you will. If you've tried it, you know it can change your life. If you haven't, get ready for the ride. Those of us who have spent significant time solo on the road may not realize how much it can change us.After years of travel, everything began to look different. Some things that had mattered before just fell off my radar screen. Others I hadn't even thought of took a front-row seat.If you travel for any length of time with only yourself for company, these things might happen to you...1. You will become more self-sufficient.If you lacked independence or self-confidence, solo travel will make you more self-sufficient. You will cope with situations you hadn't even dreamed of before, like finding your way out of a hostile place or being lost. Even if you don't know a word of the language, you'll find a way to communicate. You'll use your arms and hands, pull out your high school French or hand over a map. You'll figure it out. You'll learn to cope because you'll have no alternative. And if you get into trouble, you'll find a way out. You'll trust your instincts more.2. You'll learn to relax and take things as they come.You'll become more flexible. Instead of getting upset when things don't happen as or when they should, you'll learn to go with the flow. Many cultures have a saying: No Worries, or something similar. You'll learn to make that motto your own. 3. Your sense of proportion will change.Little things won't bother you anymore. No bus? No problem. You'll travel tomorrow. Or next week. No money? No problem. Something will work out. Someone takes your seat? Jumps the line? Too insignificant to matter.4. You'll become stronger.You'll learn to push your limits and step our of your comfort zone. Solo travel isn't always easy for women - but you'll overcome problems more quickly. Things that might scare you - like dining out alone - will become second nature. Perhaps you'll use your travel to stretch yourself in other ways - by joining an ashram or kibbutz or other unfamiliar environment. You may even thrive on the challenge.5. You will learn a lot of things.You'll be learning new things every day - words and phrases in a foreign language, how people live, what they eat, how they treat one another...  or learning to meditate or do yoga or write or paint. Your learning may be more mundane - accepting to try new foods or to wear different clothes. Politics and history will become real for you rather than something you read about or watch on TV.6. You'll learn to take care of yourself.If you used to run to the doctor every time you experienced mild pain, this will change. You'll learn to take care of your own health, especially in rural areas where medical care may be non-existent. Don't neglect your travel insurance or first aid kit checklist, but learn a few basics about how to deal with illness when no one else is around. You'll feel more empowered if you know you can face health issues with knowledge and confidence, at least until you can get yourself to a doctor.7. Time will shift.Our everyday lives tend to be filled with impatience - when the bus runs a few minutes late or the restaurant table isn't ready on time... solo travel changes all that. In many societies, time is measured in days or weeks, not in minutes or hours. As you travel, your sense of time will change. If someone's late, they probably had a reason. You'll find out in due time. If someone doesn't show up, you'll see them another day. Rather than concentrating on what you don't have, you'll be focusing on the day, on 'what's next'.8. You'll have greater empathy.You've often heard that poverty means living on less than $2 a day. As you travel solo and pay more attention, you'll understand the word poverty in a different way. Rather than watch it on television, you'll be breathing the stale air of indoor wood fires or watching children vie for food. Rather than an abstract concept, you'll witness the daily fight of millions just to stay alive. And that will change you forever.9. Solo travel helps you meet new people.Whether you're a loner or a social butterfly, you'll have no choice - you'll constantly be meeting people. They might be fellow travelers or local people on the bus, but each day you'll add to the number of people you've met. And it will feel as natural as stepping outside. Some of these people will remain passing acquaintances - but others will become lifelong friends, connected by moments shared.10. You'll be more open to the world.If you're an outgoing or extroverted person, you'll put those traits to good use and expand them. But if you're the slightest bit quiet or shy, traveling on your own will change all that. You'll enjoy the similarities you share with others rather than focus on your differences, and learn how to accept what's around you more easily.11. Little things will take on more value.Your life may become more filled with little things that matter. The smaller gestures - a smile, a helping hand - these are the things you'll be exchanging with people on the road. Perhaps you had less time for these small gestures back home but on the road, they will take on new meaning and happen more often.12. You'll learn to love your own company (if you don't already).There's nothing like solo travel for women to make you enjoy your own company. Part of it is the empowerment of traveling on your own but also the sheer number of people you meet - you'll begin to appreciate your solitude. Women who worry about loneliness shouldn't - it's usually a question of too many people rather than not enough.13. You'll do without the extras.You may have thought they were essentials - television, computer, theater, cellphones, shopping malls, regular nights out, a car... Once you get used to living without many of these things - and you will if you're on the road for any length of time - you'll genuinely adapt, and start appreciating what you have as opposed to missing what you don't.14. You'll be less fearful.What once looked daunting may become commonplace. If you've been afraid of things - creepy crawlies, unusual food, rickety planes and leaky boats - your fears will probably subside. After a few rides on rusty planes, anything with a working engine was OK by me. Same with small reptiles. Those harmless little green geckoes that run across your ceiling in tropical countries never actually fall off - but they eat all the mosquitoes so in time I actually learned to like them.15. Many of your prejudices will get a shakeup.On my own out there, I was rarely part of a majority. Being white in Africa or black in Eastern Europe or a woman on her own in a patriarchal country will give you a different perspective on prejudice and minorities. It's easy to forget these issues when you're surrounded by people who share similar outlooks and standards but you might be surprised at how things look from other perspectives. 16. You'll truly appreciate what you left behind.If you left home because you weren't happy, you may find a lot of the bad memories begin to fade with time. Perhaps you hated your job - but at least you were able to have one. Your rent might have been high - but you had a roof over your head. You may have disliked certain foods - but there was always a supermarket around the corner where something else was available. Your family may have nagged you - but you may miss them on the road. Whatever your complaints back then, you'll probably start appreciating some of the things you left behind.Not all of these things will happen to you - but there's no question that as a woman, solo travel will change you.Hotel Room Security Devices: Don't Use the Hotel Safe - Do This Instead!Keeping valuables safe in hotels is a concern for most of us travelers. Because you DO leave things in your room, right? We all do.We’ve all heard about the hotel security issues, those where valuables go missing from inside a locked room or even from a hotel safe.  You might have even been one of the unlucky ones to have your stuff stolen and so now you’re on the hunt for some hotel room security devices to keep your stuff safe and secure while you’re traveling, whether you go carryon only or tote along a steamer trunk.There are some great hotel room security gadgets on the market.  Some of the best hotel room safety devices include a hotel safe lock, a portable safe box, a portable travel door lock or portable hotel door alarm.  Whilst no single device is a 100% guarantee against theft, using at least one of these travel safety gadgets will go a long way to protecting your valuables.are hotel safes safe?How secure are hotel room safes? They're there for our safety and convenience - most of us won't want to drag our paraphernalia around all day, so we stash our laptops and passports and tickets in a safe place.We put things in a......hotel room safeHow many times have we been told this? Even I've recommended you use the safe in your hotel room.But are they really safe?Actually - no!?Safes can be carried away if they're not bolted to the ground.Someone in management or staff either has a key or the hotel safe master code.An in-room safe can be broken into much more easily than you think.At best, hotel room safes are dissuasive. Since most thefts are opportunistic, thieves often won't take the time, however brief, to break into a locked safe, so there's that.Still... this video will show you just how easy it is for a determined robber to lift your (supposedly well-guarded) belongings: Who Can Get Into Your Hotel Safe?But there’s no need to be concerned: there are some great travel safety items available to keep your items secure in your hotel room while you’re out and about and seeing the sights.Different Types of Hotel Room Security DevicesSo how DO you keep your things safe in your hotel room?I've compiled a range of clever hotel room safety devices which allow you to worry less about what you left in your room and enjoy your surroundings a little more. Let’s take a look at some of the options.1. Portable Safe BoxEver wonder where to hide valuables in a hotel room? A portable travel safe is a safe container that you can take with you and use to store all your valuable documents. Generally travel safes are built like a bag: just put your valuables inside, lock it up and secure it to something solid in your room.Having a personal travel safe makes it unnecessary to use hotel safes, which aren't reliable enough. Keep reading below to check out some of the best travel safes for hotel rooms currently available.2. hotel safe lockWhat if you don't want to take a portable hotel safe with you? Well, you can still use the in room safe - just bring along a travel safe lock.  There are several different types of room safe locks and they all provide an added layer of security by creating a barrier that needs to be unlocked before anyone can get to the safe itself.  This prevents someone with a master key from accessing your valuables.Of course a hotel safe lock doesn’t prevent someone from running off with the entire safe, but it will deter the occasional dishonest staff member (and thankfully there are few!) from being tempted to use a master key and help themselves to your things.Keep reading below to check out some of the best travel safe locks available on the market.3. Portable Travel Door LockThe best portable door lock for traveling will prevent any unwanted intruders from getting into your room while you are in it.  Certain hotel door locks for travelers basically jam the door shut from the inside, while others work in conjunction with the existing locks on your door.  You can even get portable door alarms for hotel doors which will set off a loud wailing sound should anyone have the temerity to try to open the door.Even at the most basic level, a simple travel door wedge which just gets pushed under the door will help deter someone from entering your hotel room.Keep reading below to check out some of the best travel door lock options now available.4. portable travel locksEvery traveller should at the very least carry a portable travellers security lock. This is basically a long piece of heavy-duty wire which you use to secure something to a permanent fixture in your room - for example a radiator or water pipe.  Portable travel locks for hotel rooms are also useful elsewhere, for example while waiting endlessly at a bus station or securing your bag to a cafe table while you work away. Keep reading below to check out some of the best travel locks currently available.Other Travel Safety ItemsIn addition to these safety and security items, there are several other possibilities.You can carry your important things with you in a theft-proof bag (I have two of these), and your money and papers in a money belt or travel pouch or scarf.And you can ask the front desk to keep things in their main hotel safety deposit box, which is usually much more secure than the one in your room: it is undoubtedly larger, and thieves won't make it past the front desk as easily as into your empty room.An important point is that while most hotels aren't liable for things stolen from hotel room safes, they usually are liable for anything that disappears from the front desk safe. Ask the desk if you're in doubt.A few more hotel room security precautionsHotel room safety is particularly important to women who travel solo: being on your own means you have to be extra careful - no one else will do it for you.When you check into a hotel, you may get the feeling that all is safe behind your locked door. And mostly, it is safe but there are exceptions, and you don't want to be one of them.Here are some things you should know about keeping your possessions safe.Avoid ground floor rooms: they're so much easier to break into. Lock your luggage. It's no guarantee but anything that slows down a thief helps. Thieves want to get in and out quickly, not fumble around with locks and cables. The Pacsafe cable will help keep nimble fingers out of your luggage.Use a portable safe. It's not foolproof but a thief has to be equipped to break into it so it'll discourage casual theft. Travelers who have used this recommend it highly (I'm considering buying one because I'm tired of lugging everything around with me all day.)Don't leave anything in full view - temptation is temptation. Anyone can walk off with your laptop while your room door is open during cleaning. And your everyday belongings may be worth someone else's life savings.If you're in a hostel or group accommodation, you may have a locker. Use it. If there isn't one, stash your papers in a money belt or scarf or pouch. And if you go for a shower, take your papers with you.Make sure your windows are locked before you leave. It's easy to slip in and steal.Leave a light or radio on when you leave the room. Anyone who listens at the door will think you're either in the room or coming back soon.If you do have expensive gadgets, don't flash them around where other guests or hotel staff can see them.And don't leave expensive clothes out to dry or air. A fellow traveler left her high-tech Nike Air-Max trainers on the doorstep in South Africa - irresistible in a poor country. She spent the next few days trekking in her flip-flops.Don't bring valuables with you when you travel. Period. If you have a laptop, cellphone and the like, bite the bullet, get a daypack and carry them around with you.The first rule of the road is if you can't afford to lose it, don't take it with you.But if you must take it with you, try to keep it safe.Solo travel is one of travel's greatest joys - it allows you to focus on your surroundings rather than on yourself. But it can also take you to the depths of misery.The good news? There are far more highs than lows when it comes to going on a holiday alone - at least that's what I came to believe after traveling solo around the world non-stop for more than three years.You'd be amazed at how many women traveling alone you'll find on the road. Some days, you'd think every single traveler is on a solo trip.Study after study confirms not only an increase in solo female travel, but that we are actually enjoying it. All kinds of women travel solo - and they travel in all kinds of styles. Some prefer rock-bottom backpacking, some of you want to be pampered in luxury while still others prefer to live like a local.