How I look after my gut while travelingNo one wants to poo their pants while traveling. No one.A few key moments stay with us from our travels and adventures around the world. Experiences that shape and define us go hand in hand with travel.These intrepid experiences are what change us fundamentally. They teach us lessons that can’t be learned anywhere else. And they leave us with memories that stay with us for a lifetime. These are the moments I live for on my travels.From watching the sunrise from the top of a mountain to having tea with local families in remote villages to swimming with manta rays, our world is magical and beautiful, and travel opens it up to us.And then all the other life-shaping-and-defining memories come with travel. You know the ones I mean — the ones when you miss the last train and have to sleep in the station memories. Or when someone swipes your bag with your last $20 memories.And my all-time favorite, the poo-your-pants in public memories.Anyone who is anyone who has voyaged overseas likely has experienced the non-rainbow-and-unicorns side of travel. While Instagram might have us believe that travel is always glamorous and photo-ready, we all know the truth. I certainly have never seen a hot influencer talking about diarrhea while on their adventures, even though all those diet teas they’re hustling have a MASSIVE laxative effect.That adage about travel being only glamorous in retrospect rings true and is almost inescapable.After all, are you even a real travel blogger if you haven’t almost shat your pants on a chicken bus in a developing country? Nope, don’t think so.Yes, this is a blog about poo. Read on, dear ones.I’m no stranger to “why me” situations while traveling. I’m a bit of a magnet for them.I’ve picked up parasites in Mongolia, dysentery in Egypt, and dengue fever in Sri Lanka. And I’ve had diarrhea more times than I can count, though not recently! Wahoo!I love to travel and have never been shy about trying new things, meeting new people, or adventurous eating, all of which comes with its perils. Though the benefits almost always outweigh the risk.I was 19 the first time I headed to South America. With youthful naivete, and with a c’est la vie attitude towards food, I didn’t question anything that I put into my mouth. From pisco sours to fried guinea pigs to alpaca burgers and cheesy street corn, I tried it all in Peru.But it was the local fruit smoothie that did me in.For less than a dollar, I picked out some of my favorite fruits for a smoothie at a local market in the mountains. With some vague memory of only eating fruit that had peels, I shrugged and thought, that’s crazy.I had chugged half of the smoothie when I watched in horror as the vendor dunked the machine in a bucket of water that was filthy. I’m talking gray. The water was gray. With flies. Oh, dear god.Uh oh, as I thought to myself as we made our way back to the hostel. As we walked past tables of meat and animals heads in the warm sun next to it, I felt a sinking feeling in the pit of my stomach, not much unlike the feeling that woke me up 12 hours later.What did I do?The mother of all food poisoning, Montezuma’s revenge, gastroenteritis, Delhi belly, Bali belly, the runs, or as my friends and I call it, Poo Roulette. Diarrhea, while traveling, is nobody’s friend but always seems to hang around when you least expect it.I reckon I had been backpacking on and off for a couple of years before I finally grew up and realized I needed to look after my gut health.Honestly, it’s genuinely incredible how your brain in your early twenties is capable of completely forgetting about an agonizing sickness as you move on to the next adventure. Sadly, Peru wasn’t the last time I experienced diarrhea while on an adventure.Whether I was trying to ride horses in Mongolia after chugging fermented mare’s milk with locals (10/10 do NOT recommend) or partaking of the free buffet in the sunshine in Thailand (no no no) or for some reason thought it was totally fine to drink tap water in Hong Kong, there are steps I could have taken to be more responsible with my stomach and health.But my first trip to Bali a couple of years ago was the straw that broke the camels back. I had diarrhea so severely I couldn’t travel for days.After that, I decided to get serious with preparing and avoiding illness while on the road. Nothing ruins a trip quite like getting sick, and I was over it: time to grow up, Liz.This meant that I actively worked to prevent getting sick on trips. I did this, especially when I would be in places where I wanted to eat adventurously. Did you know that diarrhea is the most common travel-related illness?For years I’ve been carrying around a box of Travelan, an over-the-counter product available to be purchased on Amazon or Passport Health Travel Medicine clinics. It offers digestive tract protection and helps your body maintain regular bowel habits. BOOM.So without any shame, here is my major Public Service Announcement to all of you who dream of traveling with the aforementioned healthy bowel habits (me). Don’t let poo roulette ruin your trip.Designed to target and neutralize bacteria before they can make you sick, Travelan is an essential tool in my travel arsenal. I use it to make sure my travel plans stick to a schedule. Reducing the risk of experiencing stomach upsets is vital to me, especially when I’m traveling to places where it’s common.Between the actual illness part, which lingers for days to the general inconvenience of trying to find doctors or hospitals overseas in remote places to the cost of the medical treatment, I want to avoid all of that mess. Oh, and let’s be honest here, not all toilets are created equal. All of the toilets I’ve had to use while in the throes of sickness have been THE STUFF OF NIGHTMARES.Nope, I want my gut happy and healthy and normal – don’t we all? This is perfect because Travelan mostly contains naturally occurring antibodies that help to neutralize gastrointestinal issues before they begin.This doesn’t mean to let all good hygiene practices fly out the window while traveling. It’s essential to stay as clean as possible when you can. Also, it’s up to you to do everything you can to prepare for inevitable diarrhea on your travels.Travel is wild and beautiful, and wildly beautifully unpredictable. It’s in that inconstancy where we often find the most compelling stories and make the most incredible memories.Just don’t let pooping your pants while on a horse trek be one of them.My Valentine’s Day heart attackMy heart broke on Valentine's Day, literally.Greetings from the Christchurch hospital, where I’ve been loitering since Valentine’s Day when I had A LEGITIMATE FREAKING HEART ATTACK.You see, when I think I’m in control and getting my life planned out and organized, the universe has a way of reminding me that I’m a pawn and that sometimes shit.just.happens.Why me? Why is it always me? The universe, I’m going to need you to stick to the plan. Five days in the hospital for a heart issue is not part of my project! Get it together.As you can see, I’m totally fine now, but please read on.Friday morning, I was on my laptop sipping coffee, getting ready to start my day, when a feeling of total dread washed over me, building into the most intense crushing pain across my chest, neck, and shoulders down my arms and even into my jaw. The discomfort was immense and all-consuming.I couldn’t breathe, eventually collapsing on the floor sobbing, gagging and heaving from the sheer pain of it all. Clutching my armpits and curled up in a ball, I thought to myself, oh my god, I’m dying. But out loud, I said to my partner Giulio, “I’m fine. I’ll be fine, just go to work!”Luckily, he ignored me and dragged me to the hospital, where I was poked, scanned, prodded, wired up, and poked some more. Not after he first said, “babe, you shouldn’t have eaten that whole pint of Ben and Jerry’s last night,” before he realized the severity of what was happening.Obviously, I will never let him forget that.And here we are. I’m 31 years old with no history of heart issues in my family. I don’t tick any of the boxes around risk factors for heart attacks or heart problems minus the occasional B&J binge and a whole heap of stress.On paper, I’m perfectly healthy. And yet, at 31 years old, I find myself bed-bound in ugly standard-issue hospital pajamas in the cardio ward surrounded by people twice my age.I had suffered a mild heart attack. The culprit? My migraine medication, Sumatriptan (Imitrex).Hands up if you had no idea this was a possible side effect of the most common migraine medicine?! Me neither!All the doctors knew about this but had never seen it before.My simple understanding is that migraines cause blood vessels in the brain to expand and inflame, and Sumatriptan is very useful in shrinking those blood vessels back down, causing the headache to stop. It certainly worked for me up until now.However, it can also cause the blood vessels everywhere else to reduce down, including around your heart. The blood vessels shrank, cutting off the blood supply to my heart. This essentially causes it to spasm or cramp, technically a heart attack, though a minor one.It’s not the kind of heart attack that you think of around blood clots or blockages. They know this because the enzymes in my blood were high and abnormal, indicating a heart attack, though a tiny one compared to my bedfellows in the cardio ward. It’s also why I felt fine the day after. Luckily I have no lasting damage or should have problems with my heart in the future – fingers crossed.Five days later, I’m still in the hospital waiting for test results, and things are looking positive. Physically I feel pretty good, just exhausted with a damn lingering migraine that I can’t medicate for. The good news is that my heart and my brain look fine. I should be all good moving forward, trialing a new migraine medication that isn’t a triptan.Emotionally is a different story. While my discharge papers are almost ready, my mental state feels bruised and fragile.A deep part of me still feels like shit. Like in some way, this was my fault, especially after my burnouts of the past two years. If I eat cleaner, exercise more, manage my stress better, be more Instagram-Healthy, and even emotionally stronger, then this wouldn’t have happened.I’m too young; I’m not supposed to be here.I felt really really depressed in the hospital for a variety of reasons, the main one being that hospitals are fucking depressing.Being on the public health system in New Zealand (in my new experience) is that if you aren’t dying, then you have to wait for your turn in the hospital. This makes sense, except I’m guessing that the public hospitals in most places are overworked and understaffed. Because I went in on the weekend, I was doomed to wait around for days with no answers; it was so frustrating. It didn’t help that I still had a migraine, no answers, and didn’t see the same nurse or doctor twice, and everyone I did see gave me a different answer.I spent six hours in the ER on Friday night waiting for admission to the cardio ward, literally surrounded by people escorted by police and chained to their beds. It was a horror. Not Christchurch’s finest.Combined with the fact that I just moved to Christchurch meant I didn’t know anyone here well enough with only my partner Giulio by my side meant I felt very lonely.Twice I freaked out badly and looking back, I’m ashamed at how emotional I got. I went home on Saturday night against the advice of the doctors because I couldn’t stand to wait two more days in there for tests with no communication.Upon reflection, I wish I hadn’t gotten so upset but at the time or was so impatient. I suppose situations like this don’t bring out the best in people, and even now, I fight against my desire to appear perfect to everyone all the time. Sigh.It’s disheartening (pun intended) to be in the hospital for something that shouldn’t happen to people like me. I can’t even begin to wrap my head around it all. The girl whose heart literally broke on Valentine’s Day – oh the irony!All I can say is that it was a massive wake up call for me to get as healthy as possible and really put my life back to order after a very stressful couple of years. And also to take drug side effects seriously.Have you ever experienced something similar? How should I cope with something so surprising? Any advice for migraines and stress reduction? Share!Am I a real photographer yet?Spoiler alert - we all suffer from imposter syndrome, especially us womenFor the longest time, I really resisted calling myself a photographer, let alone a professional photographer.Upon reflection, I’m not quite sure why I was hesitant, but I think deep down, maybe I felt like I hadn’t “earned” it. Perhaps I didn’t even believe in myself or my work. What is the root of this lack of professional confidence? Instead, I stuck with the familiar title of blogger, writer, or the more generalized “that girl from the internet,” downplaying my success and my work. Just because my preferred method of photo-sharing is Instagram and I type my captions with my thumbs doesn’t make it any less valid, right?My photography is a massive part of my business and has been for close to a decade. Yet, here we are.Over the past year, as I’ve done a lot of both personal and professional development, and with that comes a lot of reflection on how I talk about myself. It didn’t take long to have a staggering realization that I intentionally downplay who I am and what I do.I feel like this is so common, especially with women, we don’t own our achievements or often minimize our successes. So often, we downplay our authority and talent in favor of being seen as approachable, feminine, and compliant. Fuck that! Every hair on my body stands on end in pure objection when I see that, and yet, AND YET, I find myself doing it all the time.Undermining my own experience and expertise is something I often do without realizing it. Female confidence in the workplace still feels taboo. Or is it just me?This is a question I’ve been grappling with my entire life. No matter what I achieve or how far I go, somehow, it just isn’t enough. I could always be better, be doing more, be more perfect.Why do we think like that? And why are women in particular conditioned to feel inferior? To be inferior? I object! That nagging feeling that you’re just not good enough even has a name – imposter syndrome.Plaguing creatives for years, I have found that it hits women in particular. If only feminine confidence in the workplace wasn’t considered a bad thing. Assertive and bossy aren’t a good look for us, even though I wish it were. Call me cynical, but I reckon it all comes from a world that doesn’t believe in women. Yet.It’s hard to walk with confidence, especially as a creative female when the world doesn’t have your back. It’s even harder to co-habit a space dominated by confident males. Hello, photography!Even though women helped pioneer photography from its inception, and some of the greatest photographers we’ve ever had have been women, nowadays it’s a male-dominated industry.From the photos we see in the news to the ambassadors for the kingpins of camera corporations, gender inequality is very real in the photography world today.Even the way photography gear is marketed is uber-masculine.Do you think men share the same feelings of imposter syndrome as I do? LOL!I’ve met more men than I can count who don’t even shoot in manual, take super average photos, or haven’t yet sold an image, and they have no problem calling themselves professional photographers. I’ve been on jobs with photographers with a fraction of my experience who have zero qualms about selling themselves to the moon and back in a way I never could.Discrimination at the workplace, sexism, and stereotypes have contributed to a general lack of opportunities for women in photography.And don’t even get me started on the looks and comments I get with my cameras. “That camera looks a bit big for you, missy.”Really?I don’t know about you guys, but FUCK THAT.Let’s start to change things. While it makes me wildly uncomfortable to be proud of my successes and achievements, I’m going to show up and bloody well own it — 10 years down the track to boot.While this is painful, it’s part of the work. And I’m not doing it just for myself and my mental health; I’m doing it for all my fellow females out there that often struggle with the same feelings as me. It’s exhausting, and I’m over it.Let’s go!I want to acknowledge myself and the work I’ve put into becoming a better photographer over the past decade.I’m always working, always learning, always upskilling, and trying to learn new tricks. I’m privileged in my line of work in that I’ve been able to connect with some of the most talented and creative photographers in the world, many of whom have taken me under their wing and taught me so much.And I want to fully recognize this happened of my own damn merit. I hustled my way to where I am, and through my ability to build powerful human connections, I’m able to have a real impact with my work.