How to use water instead of toilet paperHow to use water instead of toilet paperIndian toilets, or squat toilets, are better for you and the environmentONE OF THE MANY cultural adjustments I have made in India is learning to use an Indian toilet, or squat toilet, and also learning to use water rather than toilet paper. Squat toilets are not common in Indian homes in cities like Delhi — where western style toilets usually prevail. But they are common in rural areas and modest establishments like roadside dhabas. However, what is common is the use of water instead of toilet paper. Most of India still uses water to wash, rather than toilet paper — which is a very good thing.To be honest, I didn’t take to Asian toilets, or Indian toilets, as quickly as I did to eating gulab jamun and wearing Indian clothes. Both when I lived in Japan, and when I first arrived in India, I resisted using squat toilets and washing with water instead of toilet paper. It did feel like a big cultural adjustment. But I had to do it — first of all, there often isn’t any toilet paper to be had, and secondly, you should NOT put toilet paper down most Indian toilets. The system was not made for it. You have to put the toilet paper in a dustbin, if you’re lucky enough to find one.How I learned to stop worrying and love waterSo, I eventually started to wash with water after using the toilet … and I became a convert. I feel cleaner and healthier; I save money; and I use less of a precious resource — trees. I sometimes dry off with a small amount of toilet paper, or with a handkerchief. But otherwise, it’s water all the way, and I couldn’t be happier. I wish the entire world would embrace this method — here’s why.There is a sound health rationale for washing with water, but in this post, I’m going to focus on the environmental reason: toilet paper is an environmental disaster. If you Google “toilet paper and the environment,” as I did, you will find lots of articles that spell out the negative consequences of toilet paper such as:Why toilet paper is bad for the environmentThe environmental problem with toilet paperWhat toilet paper is doing to the environmentNot only does toilet paper use a lot of trees, including old growth forests, the process for making it requires a lot of chemicals. The other problem is that westerners use a LOT of it. The world spends $30 billion USD a year on toilet paper!We’re literally flushing our forests down the toilet. And it doesn’t have to be this way — there is an excellent alternative readily available to people willing to overcome marketing messages and cultural conditioning. Water.How to use water instead of toilet paperThere are many ways to incorporate water into your washroom if you’re not lucky enough to have a hose or built-in system, like we use in India. You can simply buy a small container — something like a plastic measuring cup, with a spout — and use it. Or you can have a hand held bidet or bidet seat installed. There are lots of options.If you want to learn how to use water instead of toilet paper, Wilbur Sargunaraj created this video especially for those who are afraid of a toilet paper shortage during the pandemic. Also, if you travel in India, you may find you actually need this information: Aside from modern homes and high-end hotels, most of the toilets in India are holes-in-the-floor with water and no paper. This is a good skill to learn; trust me on this one.By the way, Wilbur is actually a very talented musician, as well as a cultural ambassador extraordinaire. This is from his Wikipedia entry: “He is widely known as India’s first YouTube sensation. He has racked up millions of views for his unique music and instructional videos. And he comes with the added promise of ‘Quality, First Class, Sargunaraj Trademark.’ What his videos lack in production sheen, they make up for in unabashed entertainment.”I had a chance to meet Wilbur while he was in Toronto several years ago, and I found him to be a warm and wonderful person behind his comic persona! Where in the world do writers find inspiration for writing?Where the writers go: A roundup of writers’ retreats, hotels, bars, homes, and museums that you can visitARE YOU ITCHING TO WRITE the next great travelogue, novel, or bestselling book? You might try traveling to one of the places on this list — places where writers find inspiration. There are places around the world that attract writers. Some mysterious combination of ambience, atmosphere, and convenience seem to provide the ideal setting for writers to find inspiration and focus. In these places the muse strikes, the words flow, and a masterwork is born! Sometimes it’s a home by the sea, sometimes a noisy bar, sometimes an elegant hotel, and sometimes a picturesque town.Who knows why writers choose the places they do to work — but we do know that many of them have been preserved for posterity. All of the places listed below are open to visitors. Who knows, perhaps if you immerse yourself in one of these charmed places, you too will write a bestseller. Speaking of inspiration to write …This post was inspired by a tweet I saw by the eminent British writer and historian William Dalrymple who, like me, lives in India. He tweeted a photo of the view from his writing desk at Bhainsrorgarh Fort boutique hotel in Rajasthan, India — and yes, it did have that spaciousness I also love. My psyche seems to need to fly and prefers a sweeping and inspirational view.I have travelled around India for many years looking for the perfect place to write and have found some contenders. The rooftop room of a guest house in Bundi below the gothic palace fort, a hotel on Assi Ghat in Varanasi with a shuttered window overlooking the ghats, a restaurant in Udaipur with the classic view of Lake Pichola … and my own apartment in Rishikesh with a soaring view up the valley and of the surrounding lower Himalayan mountains.So, below is a roundup of different places around the globe writers have chosen, for various reasons, as submitted by travel writers and bloggers.Shopping in India: What to buy in IndiaUltimate Guide to Shopping in India: Things to get from IndiaINDIA IS A shopper’s paradise. There is an astonishing variety of dazzling clothes, shoes, jewelry, spices, and Indian souvenirs to buy in India, plus a lot more. This ultimate guide will give you a complete overview of the best things to get in India as a tourist, including what to buy in Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Rajasthan, Goa, Kerala, Rishikesh, and Varanasi – plus best souvenirs to buy in India. The entire country is basically an Indian shop!One of my favourite pastimes is shopping in India and especially buying clothes in India. You just can’t beat the combination India offers: an incredible variety of gorgeous items, often hand-made, at temptingly low prices. Handicrafts, textiles, jewelry, furnishings, art, spices and much more on display in ancient bazaars, busy markets, state emporiums, street stalls, and shiny new malls. I particularly love Indian clothing stores (and even online stores) and to buy Indian souvenirs. The country produces both traditional and modern goods, and sometimes a compelling mix of both — such as designer fashions inspired by traditional costumes.This shopping guide also covers the fine art of haggling (also known as bargaining or negotiating), what to buy in different regions of the country, from Delhi to Rajasthan, and my top picks for the best souvenirs.Why am I qualified to write this post?For the past 13 years, since 2005, I have been travelling extensively in India – and shopping! I now live here, in Rishikesh, and continue my shopping in India habit whenever possible. While I was preparing for my first trip to India, I read some advice on the Journeywoman site that I took to heart: when in India, wear Indian clothes.From my very first days in India, I started shopping for shoes, jewelry, and clothes, especially the salwar kameez (otherwise known as a suit or Punjabi suit) – a three-piece set consisting of loose trousers, a long tunic called a kurtah, and a long scarf called a dupatta. This is an outfit that suits the climate and the culture, and the need for modesty (especially when travelling in traditional areas and off-the-beaten path).I have also bought a lot of Indian souvenirs over the years, and things that were specialties of the region I was travelling in such as wall hangings in Rajasthan, silk saris in Varanasi, India, and mala beads in Rishikesh. Now that I live in India, I also buy a lot of housewares, including curtains, bedspreads, teapots, pillows, dishes, furniture and more.Top 10 things to buy in IndiaBelow is my list of the top 10 things to buy in India — these are my personal favourites, plus I know they are specialties of the region. I am also recommending artisan-made products from India — personally hand-picked by me. These items are truly gorgeous! Click on the links below to browse or buy.Indian clothes. India is of course famous for gorgeous women’s clothes, from elaborately embroidered pashmina shawls to silk saris, from cotton kurtahs (long, tunic-style shirts) to scarves. Many of these come adorned with hand beading and/or hand embroidery and will make you feel like a princess. You can buy Indian clothes online and just about everything else, or visit Indian clothing stores in person.Textiles. India excels at textiles, including cotton, silk, wool, and linen, plus an incredible array of homegrown printing and embroidering techniques. You can find an unending variety of things like block-print bedspreads, appliqu? wall hangings, embroidered pillow cases – the list really is endless. At the high end are hand-beaded items that add fantasy and bling to home d?cor. There’s also khadi, hand-woven fabric, that has its own charm.Jewelry and bling. Indian women love jewelry, and the bigger and more ornate the better. There is an astounding variety of real and costume jewelry — to go with your princess look. Buying jewelry in India is one of the most fun things you can do, from cheap bangles to precious gems. Jaipur is the gem capital of India, but you can find jewelry virtually everywhere.Things to do in Ontario: A region of natural beautyThings to do in Ontario: A getaway that includes a wolf sanctuary and the great Canadian outdoorsThis summer, my sister Victoria Ward and I wandered Ontario’s Highlands in search of art, culture, and natural beauty – and opportunities to enjoy them. We found a profusion of all three. In fact, it is safe to say, the region can be characterized by the thriving art and culture scene, rugged beauty, and serenity and we found lots of great things to do in Ontario. This is the second post about our #ComeWander trip in Ontario’s Highlands. Please note: We were on a media trip sponsored by the Ontario’s Highlands Tourism Organization.Ten years ago today, I hit the publish button on Breathedreamgo for the first time. August 23, 2009. It was Ganesh Chaturthi that year, the Hindu elephant-headed god’s birthday, and I rushed my web builder Jennifer to be ready on time. For Ganesh is the god of auspicious beginnings, good luck, and the remover of obstacles.Krishna RadhaThis year, on August 23, it’s Krishna Janmashtami — a celebration of another beloved Hindu god, Krishna. I always feel joyful when I think of Krishna, who is often depicted as either a naughty child stealing butter, or as a young lover playing the flute and chasing gopis, or as Radha’s spiritual partner. The divine love between Krishna and Radha, who never married, is held up as an ideal of selfless love and devotion — sometimes referred to as Bhakti. And so I feel my journey in India has been one of auspicious beginnings leading to a joyful reunion with India, the country that inspires me and also spiritually sustains me. Krishna was also Arjun’s charioteer and gave him the wise counsel that became the Bhagavad Gita, the book that is sometimes known as “the bible” for Hindus. There is great depth in the Bhagavad Gita, but my understanding of the message is to do your work, your dharma, with joy and devotion, and without being attached to the outcome or the fruits of your labour. Because of karma, we cannot know or control the outcome of our actions, we can only do our best.In fact, I always approached Breathedreamgo this way. When I started, travel blogging was at best a strange hobby — certainly not a money-making profession. But that’s not why I created Breathedreamgo. It was always a labour of love, an expression of my passions, and a platform to exercise my creativity and talents.Yesterday, I asked on social media, “What do you want to know about about blogging, travel writing, pursuing a dream career, what it’s like to live in India, dealing with monkeys on a daily basis … or whatever … let me know.” Four people responded with questions (and many more with congratulations, thanks!).Question 1: Can you still pursue your passion, and your dream career, when you’re over 60?Yes, yes, and a resounding yes. We live in a youth-oriented age, largely because of the media (young people look better in photograph, I guess), and we can easily become negatively influenced. It does sometimes feel that middle-aged and older people are almost absent from the media, and it can make us feel invisible. This is ESPECIALLY true in the travel industry — which is bizarre given how many older people travel and how they tend to spend more money. I started when I was about 44 or 45, and Breathedreamgo was launched when I was 49. Many people would consider that over-the-hill, but for me, it was a time of re-birth and I feel even more energetic, passionate, and motivated than when I was young. Personally, I would not want to live with the regret of not having tried. The only failure is not trying. So, go for it. Question 2: What’s it like to live with monkeys everyday?Where I live in Rishikesh, we have what’s sometimes called the “monkey menace.” My flat is on the outskirts, near a forest (Rajaji National Park is literally at my doorstep) and overlooks a large ashram (Yog Niketan) with many trees. There are two troops of monkeys who live in the vicinity — the smaller brown, rhesus macaques and the larger, grey Hanuman langurs. We have to share our space with them, and sometimes that means I have to run in from my balcony when a monkey suddenly appears. I also have to be very careful taking garbage downstairs to the bin, and bringing groceries home. I have had many near-misses with them, but so far I’ve been able to stay out of their way.This troop of Hanuman Langur monkeys, in the video, won the war waged in the stairwell outside my flat in Rishikesh, to play on the roof of the ashram next door!Question 3: How do you start travel writing or blogging, and how do you stand out?This is not any easy question to answer. Times have changed SO much since I started travel writing and blogging in 2005. Back then, there were only a handful of professional travel bloggers – I was surprised to see 300 in one room at the first TBEX in New York City in 2010. And almost no one was making any money. Back then, getting respect, recognition, and making money as a travel blogger seemed like a huge obstacle to overcome. In fact, I didn’t have much faith in myself or the profession and continued to focus on freelance writing – while some of my more confident (and smart) colleagues continued to assiduously build their blogs and platforms. Many of the people I started with have built businesses and are making extremely good money.Nowadays, virtually everyone is a travel blogger, thanks to smart phones and social media. It felt like overnight we went from struggling to be taken seriously as bloggers to the world of the Instagram Influencer – people with millions of followers who publish a constant stream of brand-sponsored posts.So it’s a huge challenge to get started, to make a name for yourself, and to stand out in this environment. My recommendation is to have a clearly defined, and unique niche; learn about SEO; and don’t bet the farm on social media.Relevance and responsibilityThe big challenge for me these days is staying relevant and also responsible. Every day, a new story is published about irresponsible travellers stomping on farmers’ fields, polluting pristine beaches, or falling off cliffs in the rush to get that perfect Instagram image. This week alone a travel blogger was seen riding an elephant in Assam and another promoting tourism in war-torn Syria, so there are a lot of ethical issues to consider.Travel is not the life-changing, rarity it once was; it’s now a status symbol and commodity. More and more people are travelling for the photo opp, rather than the experience, and there are some very negative consequences of this behaviour, such as misinformation, over-tourism, and pollution.There are cities struggling with a massive influx of tourists, such as Venice and Barcelona. There are places that have been so polluted and degraded by tourists that local authorities have had to close them, such as the beach in Thailand where the film The Beach was made. There are iconic natural wonders, such as Mount Everest, weighed down by garbage. Over the years, I’ve struggled to keep up with the technological changes, the advent of youth-oriented social media channels like Instagram, the competition to publish posts that rank well in search, and the motivation to continue in the face of all of these changes and pressures. Furthermore, I want to be part of the solution, not part of the problem – so my integrity sometimes also stands in the way of financial success.Nevertheless, I have committed to the cause of Responsible Tourism and make an effort to publish posts that steer people away from elephant riding and towards offbeat locations, and teach them the benefits of choosing to carry responsible travel products such as reusable bottles and spending time in jungles, forests, national parks and tiger reserves, and spiritual centres and ashrams.Living MY dreamThanks to Breathedreamgo, I am living my dream ( I don’t believe in THE dream). I live in a lovely apartment in Rishikesh with stunning views of the Lower Himalayas. I have some exciting travel plans ahead of me, and I feel part of a global community of friends, colleagues, and supporters. I wake up every morning feeling grateful for all of this.But to be an honest, it’s an ongoing struggle. I cannot say “I’ve made it!” and rest content on a bed of laurels and financial security. Far from it.And to anyone who thinks it’s been easy … I’ve never worked so hard in my life, I’ve never taken so many risks, I’ve never been so far out of my comfort zone …Would I have it another way?No way.After losing my parents and recovering from a deeply entrenched depression, I made a decision to LIVE MY LIFE so that I would have no regrets, come what may. I made a decision to follow the call of my heart and the song of the soul. I also explored and expressed my creative fully, for the first time in my life. I wouldn’t change any of this. It has enriched my life in innumerable ways.Though this journey has not been highly rewarding financially thus far, I have made a decision to take a more practical and business-like approach to my blog and my work: I’m monetizing Breathedreamgo and developing my India for Beginners custom tour business. I wrote about this transition in Another new era for Breathedreamgo. So, a new journey has begun, to stretch my entrepreneurial wings.Thank you to everyone who has believed in me, supported me, followed me, read my words, trusted me with their India travel planning, hired me to create content, and joined me on this journey, this walk along the razor’s edge.Note: A special thanks to my friend Ajay and his family for giving me a home in India for many years when I first started travelling here. I published my very first India travel blogs on Ajay’s computer in his home in South Delhi.