THE VILLAGE WHERE LIFE BEGINS AGAINThe uncontacted tribeIn Paraguay, the long struggle for the indigenous people to get back their land continues. In Part 1 of this tale, we visited small communities waiting for a resolution on their land claims. Often camped by the side of a highway, they hope desperately for good news.There is reason for hope, though. In this story, we travel deep into the heart of the country to try to find a tribe that has moved back to traditional land and is beginning to rediscover the lost indigenous culture.Right from the start, this promised to be a true adventure. We were planning to head into the middle of the wilderness, far from civilisation and far from any help if we ran into trouble.Our destination was a small village in the depths of the vast Paraguayan forests – a place too small and new for mapmakers to bother themselves recording. We had a plan but it was by no means full proof.How could you ever be certain of a plan that involves a small rented boat, donkeys, minimal camping equipment, limited food and help from locals who potentially speak only their local dialects?I had joined this expedition after meeting well-known British explorer Robin Hanbury-Tenison. This is a man who has been adventuring deep into parts of South America since the 1950s, well before tourists cut a trail and back in a time when there truly were still places to discover.Now aged in his seventies, his passion for indigenous tribes has not waned through his work as President of Survival International and he had invited me to join his wife Luella and son Merlin on this trip.Our first leg began from the town of Concepcion, where we were to get on a boat. It was a small metal craft, about the size you would use for a day of fishing on a lake.Our captain, known through our whole journey only as ‘El Capitano’, had one eye missing and, from accounts, was an alcoholic. Still, with one hand on the engine and one eye on the water, he drove straight.We headed up the Paraguay River, a wide flowing highway used by fisherman, cargo boats, and (presumably) drug runners from Bolivia. It had a small but regular amount of traffic.After two and a half hours on the water, the unrelenting sun beating down on us and the splash from the river at times drenching us with a welcome coolness, we arrived at our first stop – a small village about 25 kilometres north of Concepcion.It is a small indigenous settlement by the river, with animals roaming the fields, young residents playing volleyball and children staring at us suspiciously.Although it seemed like an idyllic and convenient location, it is only temporary and many of the people in the community are planning to move into the forests to their traditional land.The search for the tribe continuesThis was where we were supposed to meet the donkeys which we were going to ride for five hours through the bush to the community, camp there for the night, then ride back in the morning. But things don’t always go as you might hope.We had made phone contact with the village leader to ask him to have some donkeys prepared and he’d assured us it was no problem. When we arrived we discovered that nothing was ready.Selso, the leader, said he would go and get the animals and we waited, while members of the community asked us why we wanted to go so far into the forest and warned us of the mosquitos and water traps we might find along the way.An hour of waiting turned into two, which turned into three. Slowly donkeys were saddled but there seemed no urgency in the process.By the time everything was ready it was starting to get late and we were unsure if we would make it to the village by nightfall.ogether we discussed our options, unwilling to give up on the plan but also quietly acknowledging the truth – it wasn’t going to happen.Our guide told us there was nowhere to camp along the way; another suggested that the donkey ride would be closer to nine hours than five; and another said the animals would be too tired to return the next day anyway and we would had to stay for two nights.Everything was leading towards the inevitable and we realised there was no choice but to abandon the plan. Robin and his family may be experienced adventurers but with experience also comes the knowledge of when to cut your losses.That was when Selso mentioned that there was another village that was in the process of setting itself up on native land in the style of their indigenous ancestors. And it was close enough that we could ride the donkeys there, meet the residents and ride back just in time before the sun set.It was perfect.It took us about an hour and a half, through dense shrubbery that tore at our legs, past trees that towered around and decided our path for us, and amongst a collection of animals which gave away their existence by their sounds, the bites on my legs and the occasional flap of wings overhead.But we got there. We arrived at the village where life begins again.Finding the lost Paraguayan tribeAn old man greets us. We shake hands… he with his left as his right was missing. The community he welcomes us into was tiny, just a couple of buildings in various states of permanence.Only twelve people live here at the moment but more are expected over time. They are able to bring very little in from the outside world so they get what they need from around them.A bucket has a large pile of honeycomb collected from the local bee collection and two small baby peccaries are tied up to wait until they are bigger and more edible. Above them hangs the carcass of their mother who was big and edible enough.We meet a younger man who is holding a large knife. On the ground is a deer that he is skinning and preparing as food. He carves and cuts like an expert and with a relish that is as much from the act itself as from what it will achieve.This is an act from his past, a connection with nature that was once a daily routine for his people. And as this young man stands over the animal he has caught and readies it for his family’s meal, he knows he has returned to his land.The day before we met people on borrowed hectares who wanted their own traditional land but didn’t know exactly what would happen if they got it. But we now knew there was potential and we saw what could happen for those who truly wanted to get closer to their original cultures.It’s still not perfect. After meeting the community members we rode the donkeys back to the village on the river and camped there for the night.In the morning the man who had been carving the deer turned up drunk. He wanted a lift in our boat across the river to the bottle shop.All the elements fit together, though, in the sense that nothing exists in isolation and things don’t always go according to plan.We didn’t make it to the community we intended to reach but we found one just as good that serves as an inspiration to the indigenous rights campaign. And maybe that community isn’t turning out exactly as intended but it will become what the people want it to be, not what is forced on them.A RETIREMENT HOME FOR ELEPHANTSChi Tem looks at me as she walks past. She seems a little suspicious, maybe even a little impatient that she’d just had to stop and wait for me to take a photo. But she doesn’t look nervous or upset.I certainly hope she’s not – it’s the whole reason she’s out here in this forest. For decades Chi Tem gave tourists rides around Angkor in Cambodia but this is now her retirement.Chi Tem is, of course, an elephant. She’s one of 14 that were being used for rides at Angkor when the practice was stopped, and was brought here to the Kulen Elephant Forest.The sanctuary is a large protected park, about 210 hectares, in the foothills of the Phnom Kulen National Park.It’s about 40 kilometres from Siem Reap, which is equivalent to about nine hours at elephant walking speed – something we know because that’s how the animals got here.Thankfully I don’t need to walk and I’m driven to the Kulen Elephant Forest on one of the regular tours they run here.The elephants may have escaped their riding life, but they’re not free of tourists completely. At least this is supposed to be about humans coming into the natural habitat of the elephants, rather than the other way around.The first thing I see when I arrive is three elephants walking down a path between the trees about a hundred metres away. A few minutes later, another two go past.They’re heading to what I’ll soon find out is the feeding area. With each of the elephants is a ‘mahout’, the word used to describe an elephant keeper.The elephants have not decided to walk to the feeding area at this exact moment – they are being guided there by their mahouts.Not with ropes or hooks, mind you. The mahouts lead the elephants by walking in that direction and calling them.It’s the first fundamental paradox of this elephant sanctuary that I’m forced to consider. In order for the elephants to be free, they need to be constantly told what to do by their mahouts.They can’t just be released into the wild because they wouldn’t know how to fend for themselves. And, even here in the sanctuary, they need to be controlled so they don’t destroy parts of the forest or wander into neighbouring farmland.I head down to the feeding area with the rest of the tourists who I’ve come from Siem Reap with this morning. Our guide, Kae, is carrying several baskets of food – mainly bananas and sugar cane – that we’re going to feed to the elephants who’ve gathered here.They obviously know the procedure. They stand behind a wooden bar and most reach out their trunks to grab the bits of food we hold out in our hands.Kae explains which elephants prefer not to eat with their trunks, so we can put the sugar cane and bananas straight into their mouths. He also points out which ones don’t like to be touched and which ones don’t mind if you put your hand on them.The wooden bar made me feel a little uncomfortable at first, until I realised it’s mainly for the elephants’ protection (as well as ours, of course) so that they can back away if they feel someone is getting too close.And although the whole activity of feeding the elephants may feel like a touristy experience, it’s what they are used to after decades of captivity. Also, remember, the animals can walk away at any point they want.Beginning a visit to the Kulen Elephant Sanctuary with the feeding serves another important purpose – it helps us visitors build a rapport with the animals and show them we’re not a threat.Because, for about two hours, we’re going to be hanging out with them in their home, as they wander through the forest.The fruit we’ve just given them is really just a snack. An elephant eats about 12 per cent of its body weight every day – that means 200 to 300 kilograms a day- so they’re going to spend much of their time grabbing food from trees. And we’re coming along for the ride, so to speak.For the most part, the elephants move at their own pace as they wander through the sanctuary, stopping at a clump of trees to pull off leaves, or throwing dirt onto their backs with dusty flourishes.Now that the feeding is over, they are not all staying together. A few of the elephants have gone off on their own into denser parts of the forest, while some are sticking together in small groups of two or three.One pair seem very close and Kae explains that they are best friends. The two female elephants (all the ones we’re seeing are female, for the record) even twist their trunks together at one point, as though they are holding hands.It’s a sweet moment for the visitors here, myself included. It’s really heartwarming to see the elephants here without chains, without seats on their backs, without stress.But there’s a broader context that needs to be remembered, and there are still things that I’m not sure I’m completely comfortable about.I get the opportunity to have a chat about these issues with David-Jaya Piot, the co-founder of the Kulen Elephant Forest. Half Cambodian, half French, he is just 23 years old and a good representation of the new generation trying to reshape Cambodian culture and business.What’s important to understand is that it was David’s family who has always owned the elephants and run the rides at Angkor. They also own several hotels and other businesses around Siem Reap.His father had tried years ago to set up an elephant sanctuary but it had failed financially, so the animals had kept giving rides at the temples. But, more recently, David thought it was worth giving it another go – which is why we’re here today.This time it’s likely to work financially because the attitudes of tourists has clearly shifted in the 15 years since it was first tried. The writing was probably on the wall for the animal riding business anyway.David is keen to stress, though, that this was his family’s decision. It was not a government ‘ban’ as has been previously misreported.While he acknowledges that life is obviously better here for the elephants, he won’t concede that life was bad for them previously. He says the animals were always well-treated by his family and he now tries to focus on welfare, not debates about animal rights.“You can get lost in the politics and so I try not to think of that,” David tells me.“I think of it objectively with the experts and consultants we have.”As we chat, I can see a few of the mahouts sitting in the shade under a tree, watching their elephants use their trunks to grab small branches from a tree and put them in their mouths.I asked David about them, why there are still humans here controlling the animals. It’s partly about making sure they stay in safe areas, he says, but also about them needing to trust humans so they can be looked after and treated for health problems.“Whenever you’ve got an abscess that you have to cut, for example, they have to respond properly to humans or it’s impossible. That’s why it’s about the healthcare,” he says.“In captivity, an elephant can live up to 80 years old, up from 50 in the wild because of the healthcare – and I think it would be a shame to deny them their healthcare. And they’re not less happy because they are with their guys.”What about the tourists? This is one of the things I have wondered about ever since I first came to the forest. If it really is supposed to be such a sanctuary for them, should we still be able to come here? And should we be able to touch them, for example? “It’s more of an ethical question rather than an objective welfare question,” David replies when I ask him about that.“The elephant is just as happy whether you touch it or not. It’s about yourself – do you feel ok with that and personally I feel ok with that.”Of course, this is not a perfect world and there is no ideal situation for these elephants. They can’t be released into the wild – and, to be honest, there probably is no ‘wild’ for them to be safely released into anyway.In at least one way, tourists actually help the animals by coming here because all the profit from the cost of the tours is reinvested back into the sanctuary.At the moment, the elephants are chained at night when they sleep, for instance, so they don’t wander off. David says one of the priorities is to use new funding to build better enclosures to keep the animals safe at night instead.And it certainly doesn’t feel like tourists are doing particular harm (especially compared to how things were). For the last part of my visit to the Kulen Elephant Forest, my group walks through a narrow jungle path with about half a dozen animals.They plod along at their own pace, stopping to eat when they want, and I wait patiently behind them.And I plod along at my own pace, stopping to take a photograph when I want, and they wait patiently behind me.If this is what retirement looks like for an elephant, it’s pretty good. Although the attitude towards animal riding in the tourism industry generally has changed, I’ve felt like Southeast Asia has lagged behind, but this shows great progress.Perhaps the Kulen Elephant Forest isn’t a perfect solution in a perfect world – but I’m not sure what would be… or could be. The fact it’s happened at all is something to be applauded and I believe it’s been done with the best intentions at heart.The size of the groups that can visit is limited and there are only a couple of tours a day, so the majority of tourists who come to Siem Reap will now never see these majestic animals.But just knowing they’re here and they’re (presumably) happy should be uplifting. And if you get to come and give Chi Tem – or one of the 13 others – some bananas or sugar cane, I’m sure she would be very appreciative!