I can't believe I've been traveling for ten whole years now! While these days traveling is my full-time job, I traveled a lot on my own for a long time, even before starting Hippie in Heels. Throughout the years and numerous countries, not to mention living in Goa for half of this time, I've picked up a lot of travel hacks.These are both practical things (like little ways to save money) to big lessons learned from experience, and I wanted to share them with you! So below are my favorite travel hacks after a decade of wandering the world.My 10 Favorite Travel Hacks After 10 Years1. Use Kiwi to plan and book your flightsLet me count the reasons I love Kiwiﾉ They are my go-to booking site unless I'm going super long-haul and have a lot of luggage. The reason I like them is that they ﾒflight hackﾓ for you. They combine flights which are not on the same codeshares. So, you might fly British Airlines NYC to London then a random low-budget airline onward instead of the airlines that BA codeshares with. When you codeshare, that means your luggage is checked through and if you miss a connection the airline sorts you out for free. If you booked those each flight separately, you would have to re-check your luggage and if you missed the second flight, you'd be SOL. But, Kiwi will be your insurance that although you will re-check your luggage, if you miss the connection, they'll put you on another airline at no cost. They did this for me when I went to Bali. Here's more information on how Kiwi works.2. Packing cubes are very much worth the hypeWhy did it take me so long to get them!? I can't imagine just putting my things in my luggage loose, without packing cubes, anymore. This keeps thing so orgnaized and as I get older I somehow am getting even more OCD. I have three sets because I wanted all sorts of size options.Check out some packing cube options below:3. Stay local as much as possible.I was always a fan of Airbnb, but the past two years, I look at the housing options there before I even look at hotels. From a $30 apartment in Tulum to a $200 MANSION in Merida, I've been loving staying in people's homes. I love to cook breakfast, make my own coffee, and it has saved me so much money on accomodation. I've used it in India, England, Mexico, Ireland, and 10 other countries so far and not had one issue. I tend to go for whole houses, not rooms or apartments and actually have a guide coming out soon with tips on using Airbnb. This is a way to get MUCH more into the real life of the place you stay and will honestly change the way you travel. You'll never go back to booking random hotels.4. Get an incredible travel credit cardI'm about to turn 29 and just got my first real credit card! I went with the Chase Sapphire Reserve. The main reason I decided to get one was that this particular card covers you up to 75,000 in car rental insurance. This means you can decline it at the rental counter no matter how hard they try to upsell you. The other reason is that I want to finally get into points and they give you 3x points on travel spends. The third and coolest reason I got this card, is it gives you a Priority Pass (for you and a guest). This pass allows you into a lounge in nearly every airport in the world ﾐ and the airports that don't have a lounge for you often have a restaurant you can dine with $30 or $40 credit. I actually added Ben to my account and then he can rent a car under his credit card (under my account) and use the car rental insurance, too. No more paying for a second driver!5. Planning your own travel itinerary is usually better than going on group tours, but not always.90% of the time, I'm down to plan my own itinerary and avoid the cost of tours. When I plan it myself, I really research deeply (I'm talking reading dozens of posts for each city I'll be in, checking IG hashtags, and Pinterest, too). I cater the trip to what I like in terms of food, sight-seeing, adventures, shopping, and hotels. While I prefer this, there are times a tour can really be helpful and mostly that is in India. I have done some really cool tours here in rural areas and learned SO much in just a week on a tour about India that I didn't living here as an expat or traveling as a tourist. I think that doing a tour is a great way to go even deeper into a place you are traveling ﾐ you just have to pick the right one. If you are going somewhere that stresses you out, it's best to look into a tour so you can relax and enjoy the trip. My biggest tip here is that before you go on a trip, PLAN IT. I used to wing it, and have traveled all over Europe and even India winging it. The perfect example of why NOT to do this is my Rajasthan trip. When I compare visiting there as a backpacker winging it 6 years ago to planning ahead when I went this Fall, it's like a completely new place ﾐ I saw so much more and loved every second without the stress since it was planned ahead.6. Sometimes renting a car is the best and cheapest option.Ben and I rent cars basically everywhere we go. We figure, if we can drive in India, we can drive anywhere. Like I said above, I now have a credit card with insurance which is huge in keeping the rental car cost down. You can rent for under $10 a day most places if you decline all the insurance. It's not just my credit card, but loads of them offer this ﾐ call yours and see if they do! I look on rentalcars.com when I start searching and don't have a favorite company: I use Hertz, Sixt, Europcar and so far haven't had any issues. I always take photos and video of the car when I pick it up and we are careful to clean it well before returning it. In places like England, for example, we spend so much less having our own car than if we took trains, taxis, and the underground everywhere we went. It saves us hundreds of bucks on nearly every trip.7. It's better to buy high-quality items than to just buy cheap and throw away.My H&M and Forever 21 days are pretty behind me ﾐ and I don't really buy clothing that is really ﾒtrendyﾓ. I shop thinking about travel and where I could wear things. I also buy a LOT less although spend about the same amount. Quality over quantity is what I go by and if that means paying $200 for a leather jacket I'll wear for 8 years (so far!) or a $100 for a pair of linen travel pants I'll where on every single trip I take, it's worth it! I did break that while i was in the UK: I was so cold and bought like 5 sweaters at H&M and Zara which I already regret doing! I should have bought one or two awesome ones instead. When you travel, you should feel good in what you wear and wear ﾒreal lifeﾓ items, not ﾒtravelingﾓ pieces that you wouldn't wear at home. If you dress ﾒnormalﾓ, you'll feel much more intune with the place you visit.8. You can start small in trying to be more eco-friendly as a travelerYou might not be able to go from not thinking about your effect on the environment to being a eco-warrior overnight but you can start just doing small things to help as a traveler. Even just not using straws or using reef-friendly sunscreen when you go snorkeling is helpful. This year, I have thought a lot more about sustainable travel and wish I would have been thinking this way a lot sooner. Ben is helpful with this because he literally builds reefs and is very environmentally-friendly so I'm always learning. Alex in Wanderland has a great post on this from earth day. This isn't really a ﾒhackﾓ but learning how to be more eco-friendly while you travel is something we should all keep in mind.9. If you want to go somewhere but aren't sure where think about the experiencesInstead of thinking about how a place looks, what the beach is like, or where your friends are going, plan your trips based on the experiences you want. After 10 years, I look back and remember not checking Budapest and Prague off my bucket list but instead, I remember flying in a helicopter in Maui, rafting in the Nile, and dog sledding in Finland. I remember learning to surf in Bali and shopping my heart out in Morocco. I try to really choose the places I go based on the experiences I want to have there. Have you always wanted to surf in Hawaii? Have you wanted to take a baking class in Paris? Think about activities you want to do in your life and make a list of themﾉ. then start checking them off rather than checking off a place.10. It's sometimes who you're with and not the destination at allMy biggest tip is that you shouldn't just travel for travel's sake. As a blogger, I could literally be traveling NON-STOP all year to anywhere I wanted. But we only get this one life and as much as I love to travel, I love other things: my dogs, family, boyfriend, and my home. I am careful to not get travel burn-out where I stop appreciating the new places I go. I also try to balance having a normal home life. I would rather go to Florida (again) with my mom than go off on a solo trip to somewhere new because the first one is memories I'll always cherish ﾐ it's not always about where you go but who you choose to go with, or even who you choose to stay home with instead of bouncing off on another tripAre you considering moving to Mexico? The weather is good, the cerveza is cold, and and the living is cheap, so you've heard. I moved to Mexico six months ago, after living in India for five years. I did it with legal residency and set up a life here. I'm going to share how to move to Mexico, a complete checklist of things to do before/after you move to Mexico, and the cost of living in Mexico (in general, as it can range just like any country).There are a lot of Americans living in Mexico and it's not difficult to move here as a resident at a young age, self-employed, or if you want to retire in Mexico. There are several types of visas that you can look at to see which one will fit your needs best.Expats in Mexico often come here for six months of the year and then go back to their home countries. Because you can get a six-month tourist visa for Mexico, if that is what you are planning, you don't really need to go through the legal hoops of living in Mexico. If you want a home here, to stay long-term, to buy a car, or open a bank account, you'll want to look into residency. Let's get started!Moving to Mexico: How to Move to MexicoThere are several things to do to move to Mexico and once you get here. I'll start in the order that I did things when I moved here.Visit Mexico: Choose a City to Live in, What Are the Best Places to Live in Mexico?You need to come to Mexico first! Plan a trip, even if it's just for a couple of weeks. You can look up the best places to live in Mexico, research them, and choose one or two to visit at a time.Consider why you are relocation to Mexico. Are you looking for retirement communities in Mexico? Are you looking more for a laid-back beach town? Do you want a place with local vibes that is very different from home, or somewhere that is touristy and will have the amenities you love from your home country?For me, I wanted somewhere that was safe, I could think about starting a family, a place I could buy affordable land or a home, and that had stores that I could get things I missed from the USA. I had been living in the jungle in India for years and was moving to Mexico to have a more ﾒwesternizeﾓ life. Not so much so that I wanted to be in Cancun or Puerto Vallarta which I had visited previously, and I didn't want the tourism of cute beach towns like Tulum of Sayulita which I also visited, so I chose to live outside of Merida in the Yucatan. I am not a big city person, so ruled out Mexico City. Merida is a safe city, is hugely popular with expats (mostly retirees), and since it's not too touristy, you can the real Mayan vibes here. I can live in the jungle in a village outside Merida (eventually, right now I'm in a rental in town while we look for land), and have the complete jungle vibes but still be to a Costco or Sephora in 15 minutes. The beach is about 30 minutes away as well. Many people like San Miguel, Guanajuato, Morelia, and San Cristobal.I don't know a LOT about Mexico. I haven't had a chance to travel much here except 5 major towns so I have a lot more to see and am really happy with Merida as my base. It's okay if you don't know Mexico that well ﾐ you'll have so much time to explore once you move here.You'll want to consider the temperature you can deal with here. It gets VERY hot in Merida, for example, and many people simply can't bear it in the summer months when humidity also soars. I was used to this from India and didn't mind it. Others will want a place that cools off a bit with more nature and mountains like San Cristobal de las Casas. You're going to want to visit because sometimes online isn't enough and you need to feel the place out a little bit. I use this website for weather comparison.Other then temperature you want to consider how modern the place is, internet speed if you work online, if there is an expat community (if that is important to you), the crime rate, and the cost of living. You'll spend more on rent in Mexico City and Tulum for example than Tijuana or GuadalajaraConsider the Cost of Living in Mexico: If You Can Afford It and If You REALLY Want toWant the real examples of the cost of living in Mexico? This website puts all major cities in order of cost of living and Mexico's cities start at around the 400's. While it's absolutely going to cost you less in Mexico than the USA if you live how Mexicans live, you can still end up spending a lot in Mexico if you want to.I live in Merida which is a big city in Mexico with 777,000 people but nothing compared to Mexico City's 8.8 million. I pay $1,200 for my house here per month. Sound high? That is because it is, for Mexico. Most expats I've met here are renting for a quarter of that ﾐ but they don't have a house as nice as mine. Some live in apartments, in small beach houses, or in colonial homes in Centro. I have a large 3 bedroom 4 bathroom house, with a huge yard a pool, that is dog-friendly, and in a very nice neighborhood of Benito Juarez. My rent includes a house-keeper once a week for a 8 hour day at $17 USD, a groundskeeper twice a week for $14, and a pool cleaner once a week for $14. Keep in mind, well these seem low, they are the normal rates here (which was built into my rent) and not something negotiated down. The minimum wage here for a full days work is under $5.Friends in Tulum pay less in town and some pay more on the beach. Friends in Playa Del Carmen pay similar for a small two bedroom condo. The rent varies greatly in all cities and towns in Mexico just like in the USA. I lived in India before this, one of the cheapest places in the world for expats to live, and I paid $1,000 for rent while my friends paid $200 because I had an amazing villa and didn't mind paying it. You get more for your buck in India and Mexico, both and it's up to you if you want a cheap rent or the same rent and a kickass place you couldn't have afforded in your home country. Do you want to clean your own house since you wouldn't pay $120 a month back home for someone to clean? Or do you think $120 is a steal to not have to clean again? In India, a monthly cleaner would make closer to $60-70 a month to clean six days a week. In Mexico, it was basically double for ONE day a week ﾐ so we aren't ready to splurge to have someone come daily, but still, it's nice to have someone come once a week when in the USA it would probably be $50 for someone to come clean for the day if not more.When it comes to food, something like McDonald's or Texas Roadhouse is going to cost the same, while a street taco could be .50 in some towns. You could live on cheap restaurants and local food on a budget or you could go to fine dining places that are $100 per person.Compared to the USA, movies here will be $4-$6 with VIP seating, gas is the same price, used cars are the same price, Uber is a LOT cheaper, in general, local restaurants are much cheaper, groceries are about the same, booze is cheaper in restaurants but about the same in grocery stores. Novelty items, for example, a beach chair, pool float, Kitchenaid mixer, throw blanket, decor items, are MUCH more expensive. I tend to bring these types of things from the USA. I haven't lived everywhere in Mexico, so this is about as much information as I can give in terms of cost of living. I know that I spend a lot here in Mexico, but that is because I choose to have a higher quality of life than I would have in the USA at the same price rather than the same quality of life at a lower price. You get to make that choice too, or fall somewhere in between.Moving to Mexico is a process that takes some time in terms of residency, so really think it through and make sure you're really up for a new culture that YOU have to fit into. Don't just move somewhere because it's cheap ﾐ you need to love the food, the people, the atmosphere, the holidays, the temperature, everything about your new home!Remember that in your budget, you should put aside money for a couple of round-trip flights home to visit family, go to weddings, funerals, or anything else you might want to come home for. It's an added cost of being an expat.Tie-up Loose Ends at Home Before You LeaveReady to make the move? Chosen your dream home? You need to make sure you are ready to leave your old one behind.Sell or rent our your houseSell or put your things in storageCancel memberships: Anything you're getting charged for monthly that you'd only use in the USA like that Cosmo subscription or gym membershipCancel your phone bill and unlock your phoneSell your car and cancel your car insurance or keep the car in storage and change your insurance to storage insuranceRe-route your mail to someone else's home or cancel itGet your banking in order (does your bank know you'll be abroad?, does your card charge huge fees to withdraw money abroad, do you want a new bank?Taxes: make a mental note if you are still earning in the USA or online, you need to pay taxes still in the USA unless you give up citizenship.Do some last minute preventative health check-ups before you leave and while you have that $10 co-pay and great doctors who know your history. This is invaluable! Mexico does not focus on preventative care and you can pay $50 and up for a good English-speaking doctor for a check-up or dental cleaning.Say bye to family and friendsI go into more detail in a blog post I wrote about moving abroad when I moved to India you can read here.Find a Long-Term Rental & Sign a Lease: Somewhere to Stay on Arrival & Choose a Date