2017 Plans: Sweden, Norway, Scotland, Sweden!2017 is a bit of new experience for me, for the first time in a long time, the year has already been loosely mapped out! I can’t remember the last start to a new year where I’ve been able to know where I shall be twelve months from then. It’s a strange feeling!Living the life I do, each new year has always been an open book: a year of unknown possibilities. I’ve often wondered, as the new year rings in, where shall I be next new year?2017 began with an explosion of fireworks and sky was painted with aurora. We saw it in down at the edge of lake Tornetr?sk, knowing that we would hopefully be welcoming in 2018 from Abisko too.I remembered watching the fireworks erupt across the London skyline the previous year: welcoming in 2016. I had no idea then that twelve months later I would be on the shores of an icy lake in Swedish lapland!January:Finland! A week after new year, I waved goodbye to Abisko – and Chris – for the rest of the month and took the night train down to Stockholm. I repeated the ferry journey I took back in December 2014 and sailed overnight from Stockholm to Turku. My main reason for visiting Finland is to catch up with friends and also to go to the Matka Nordic Travel Fair in Helsinki. I am catching up with Silvia – Heart My Backpack – towards the end of the month, in Helsinki. I’m super excited about it, and there will be more on that in a few weeks!February to March:Abisko, Sweden. I’ll head back to Abisko at the end of January and see out the rest of the winter up in the glorious North. By the time I return, the sun will be peeking over the horizon and the mountains again after the long darkness of midwinter.April to May:Norway, and the long drive back to the UK. Once the aurora season ends, we shall remount the camper back on the pickup and head to Norway. We’ve decided to take the slow route back home via Norway, specifically heading to Lofoten. I’m already looking forward to being back on the road, and after travelling through the islands of Lofoten last summer we are eager to return.Summer:Scotland and England. Once we return home we shall spend the summer split between Scotland and England. We are hoping to head out onto some of the Scottish Islands. Shetland was initially in our thoughts, however we may head over to the Hebrides instead.It feels like forever since we spent time touring in Scotland, it was right back in the first couple of years we were living in a van and I’ve ached to get back out there!Autumn and Winter:Back to Sweden! Once autumn sets in we shall make our way back to northern Sweden for another winter under the Northern Lights. It’s far too early to say what route we shall take, it maybe the most direct or possibly we shall meandered our way north.Vara, SwedenI hope you’ll enjoy following along!Walking Up To Pulpit RockIt’s around a two hour walk to the spectacular Preikestolen (Pulpit Rock), a walk that is well worth the exertion when you look out from this protruding cliff over the jaw-dropping vista in front of you.Standing near the edge of Preikestolen is like being on the bow of a giant ship, sailing up the fjord with the old Norse gods.The height and sheer drop is dizzying, and the view down Lysefjord takes your breath away.It’s an attractive but steep walk up to this iconic rock formation and Preikestolen doesn’t reveal itself until the very last turn, a view you will never forget.Plunging down vertically 600 metres to Lysefjord below, dark with the late afternoon shadow, Preikestolen looks formidable.Stepping out onto the sun drenched flat top of Preikestolen the mountains of southern Norway spread out before you, the deep blue fjord cutting through them.The edge is strangely enticing, it seems to draw you closer. For me however, it wasn’t a place to linger. I sat a little further back and people-watched: people will do some crazy stuff for a photo!Walking Up To Pulpit RockI’d seen so many photographs of Preikestolen, and I was keen to get up there to see it for myself. It really didn’t disappoint!I’m of average fitness (I don’t go to the gym or anything like that, I just keep myself active) and I found the upward hike to be fairly easy going, with a few challenging rocky climbs. There were quite a few people doing the walk (early May 2016), of all ages.The path begins at Preikestolen Mountain Lodge, where there is both accommodation (including dorms) and a separate large car park – with a 150 NOK (£12) parking charge. There was lots of room of camper vans and motorhomes, but alas the lovely location forbids overnight camping.We made full use of the parking cost, parked up the truck camper and made a hefty and satisfying lunch, before setting up our camp chairs in the sunshine for a couple of hours.It was such a hot sunny day, we decided to wait until mid afternoon to do the hike.The path up to Preikestolen has been upgraded and for much of the way it is a laid-rock path.The path was being worked on when we went up, by Nepalese sherpa: you can be sure this is a well-built path by men who know what they’re doing!The walk starts of steeply, climbing up through sun-dappled woodland before levelling off.A boardwalk traversed a few marshy spots before becoming a little more challenging: you certainly feel the burn on a few of the rocky climbs.The path opens out above the tree line, markers lead you across the bare landscape, and the views from up here are impressive.There are a few small lakes, perfect for a dip or somewhere to pause.It’s a final climb, and a short stretch on a precipitous wooden walkway, before Preikestolen comes into view.The walk back takes much less time as it’s all downhill.How:Preikestolen is not far from Stavanger: you need to get a ferry from Stavanger to Tau and there are buses from Tau to Preikestolen Mountain Lodge.Preikestolen Mountain Lodge has private lodge rooms, private rooms with shared bathroom (which are a HI Hostel), and dorms. Breakfast is included.Obviously, this is not a walk for flip-flops but good trainers would be fine. The path was dry all the way. We were very lucky with the weather but this is Norway and the weather can change quickly, so I’d recommend taking a waterproof and warm layers.Overall, including time sitting gazing at the glorious scenery, the walk there and back takes anywhere from 4 hours upwards. Take water, and a snack.There are no shops to buy food and drink at the start of the walk, but you can fill up water bottles from a tap next to the toilet block in the car park.In a camper van / motorhome:We drove from Stavanger to Lauvvik, where we then took the short ferry journey to Oanes. It was a short drive to Preikestolen Mountain Lodge from Oanes.Because we couldn’t stay at the Preikestolen car park, we drove up the coast to Tau after doing our walk and stayed on the waterside car park near the ferry terminal for 50 NOK (cost for 24hrs), and watched the ferries come and go!Road Trip Norway? Yes, You Need To Do It!If you are looking for an epic road trip with jaw-dropping scenery, curvy roads and plenty of amazing places to stop, then you need to drive Norway.May 2016 we spent seven weeks touring Norway in our truck camper: 4500 km of the most astounding roads we have ever driven.The trip began in Oslo, where we’d arrived by ferry from Denmark. We headed up into the mountains of Telemark before driving the beautiful south-western corner to Stavanger.From Stavanger, the roads took us north. We drove through spectacular gorges, across snow-crusted plateaus, up spiralling mountain roads and around fjords.Ferries took us over to islands and peninsulas; tunnels took us under mountains.Not a single day went by that we weren’t amazed by the view in front of us.From the south coast to the far north-eastern tip Norway is ridiculously beautiful. You need to see if for yourself!Let these photos (and the video above) inspire you to explore Norway!I’ve added coordinates below most of the photos so you can use them to plan a trip. The coordinates are also linked to open in Google Maps (in a new tab).It’s a steep twisting road up to plateau above Rjukan in Telemark where you can get up close to Gaustatoppen, Norway’s prettiest mountain.The mountain road to the other side of the plateau was still closed from the winter snow when we visited in early May so we had to drive back down the way we came. The weather was glorious, and the snow was melting but this wasn’t the only road we saw closed; it’s worth bearing in mind if you are planning a spring trip!These houses under the rock are known as Helleren, and they are nestled in a verdant gorge at J?ssingfjord on Norway’s route 44 along the South coast.Route 44 is a road I highly recommend driving, it twists through some fantastic scenery and there are lots of great places to stop.Beautiful Sogndalstand is another picture-perfect stop on route 44: a historic harbour village of colourful timber houses.I have a confession, I flippin’ loved 2016! Yes, I know there were some devastating moments – one or two that shook the foundations of my world – but the year is drawing to a close and all I can think of is how amazing it has been! 2016 will go down in my own personal history as one of my favourite years ever!My top 12 Amazing Travel Moments of 2016Helsinki Winter Sunset2. Five weeks later, when I was just preparing to leave Finland to return to the UK, Helsinki wouldn’t let me go without a striking goodbye either. This extraordinary sunset was like nothing I’d seen before, it appeared to fan out across the winter sky in a riot of different colours.It was the perfect end to a fantastic start to the year. I’d enjoyed myself so much I’d decided I was going to make this January trip to Finland a yearly thing. Yes, I’m heading back in January 2017!Stranden Tornby3. Skip forward to April and after a couple of months back in the UK I set off travelling again: this time Chris and I were setting off on an epic road trip adventure to Scandinavia in our truck camper.The gorgeous beaches we discovered in northern Denmark left us wishing we left a bit more time to explore this stunning stretch of coastline.When we’d first arrived the beach was shrouded by a dark rain cloud, the rain sweeping in from the sea like a curtain. We sheltered in the camper until the sun broke through in the evening. A golden light bathing the hairy dunes, glinting off the windows of gingerbread cottages tucked in amongst the swaying grasses.Time was short however, we had a ferry to catch, a ferry that would transport us to Norway!4. I don’t know why it’s taken me until my 30’s to find out that Norway is the MOST jaw-droppingly beautiful country, I feel I’ve wasted three decades when I could have been exploring this incredible country!Every day we drove roads that left us gawping in awe. These winding roads took us through deep valleys; under the shadow of mountains; along wild, windswept stretches of coastline; and over high snow-covered plateaus.We saw the most sublime sunsets; we felt the swell of the sea on ferries; and we met some fascinating people.Rainbow Sunset Norway5. If I thought I wouldn’t see a sunset to match the remarkable sunset fanning over Helsinki then I was wrong, because Norway gifted me this beauty!It was a sunset, a heavy rain shower and a double full-circle rainbow all in one!Unforgettable!The following day we headed out on the water, heading into fjords around Flatanger to see White Tailed Eagles which was equally extraordinary.Reine, Lofoten. Norway6. Touring through the island archipelago of Lofoten was a particular highlight of our travels in Norway. We were blessed with great weather: late-May sunshine.It was warm enough to forget that we were now inside the arctic circle, a place that unknown to us at the time would be a latitude we’d be spending rather a lot of the rest of the year in!We experienced our first sight of the midnight sun, while camped next to a beach at Ramberg, Flakstad?ya. Something I’d been very excited to see!7. I had wanted to experience the white nights of the midnight sun and this Nordic road trip was a race to get as north as possible for the Midsummer Solstice.We ended up on a remote stretch of road in far north-eastern Norway for Midsummer. This particular road sweeps around the Barents Sea coast to tiny Hamningberg, a far and wild outpost at 70? North.This location couldn’t have been more perfect. I woke around 2.30 am early on midsummer morning, the sun was streaming into the camper and I think it had woken me. The morning light was beautiful; I crept outside.The world was still, just the quiet lapping of the sea and the distant call of gulls. The sun was warm despite the latitude and the fact that I was stood in my pyjamas. A blissful moment forever etched on my memory.We drove south, into northern Finland, and it was there that we experienced the magic of wild bears deep in the wilderness of Finland’s forest.A night spent in a tiny wooden hide afforded us breathtaking views of bears padding out of the forest in the twilight of the summer night. A moment so magical it hung in the air, like a dream, like a fairytale.We tarried long in northern Finland. We loved the silence of the forests; the herds of reindeer that pottered around the camper when we were parked up; the pristine lakes that made us feel alive when we slipped into the cool water.I ticked of a bucket list item by leaping into a lake straight from the searing heat of a waterside sauna.  I can’t recommend the life-affirming sensation of that enough!I’ve spent many a day exploring Helsinki in the winter, I’d longed to see this beautiful seaside city transformed by summer. It didn’t disappoint!We explored the islands in the bay – Vallisaari, as well as the islands of Suomenlinna – we wandered amongst the wildflowers and butterflies. We lazed in the sunshine, basking on the rock like seals. We watched the sailing boats drift by, and listened to the roar of speedboats.I’d left these shores still frozen back in early February, what a transformation indeed!Deventer, Netherlands10. On our drive back towards the UK, to meet the ferry at Hook Of Holland, we paused for the night in Deventer, Netherlands.Well, Deventer is a bit of a stunner! And there is a Deventer Cake: I like destinations that have a cake as part of their heritage. We sat in the sunshine sipping strong coffee and nibbling on traditional Deventer honey cake. The cafe was Bussink, Deventer’s oldest producer of Deventer cake, they’ve been baking it for 500 years! What a treat!Which brings me to the autumn. The most incredible thing happened. We were offered winter work! A chance to spend the winter, and hopefully subsequent winters, living under the northern lights in Swedish Lapland.So after only being back in the UK for a couple of months, we turned around and headed back to Scandinavia!And when they say that Abisko in arctic Sweden is the best place in Scandinavia to see the aurora, they aren’t kidding! We’ve been here since mid November and I can’t tell you how unbelievable the lights have been, some nights I’ve seen the most extraordinary shows dancing above my head.I have to pinch myself that I’m not dreaming, I really am here! This is the stuff of dreams!12. So my final moment is a little bit sentimental and a little surprising! We’re in our sixth year of living in a van yet this was the very first time we’ve celebrated Christmas in one!And it was lovely! Maybe it felt festive because of our location deep in Swedish Lapland; maybe it was because we saw reindeer the day before Christmas eve when we drove back from Kiruna after getting some shopping; maybe it was because it snowed softly all Christmas eve.We actually had our Christmas on Christmas eve, just as it is celebrated in Sweden. We had a huge stack of Norwegian waffles for breakfast then I cooked a Nordic-inspired vegetarian Christmas dinner for the two of us in the afternoon. We had carrot casserole which I cooked in the Omnia oven, Finnish rosolli salad (potato, carrot, beetroot, gherkin, onion, and apple, with a creamy dressing), and for protein some Pulled Oumph! (an awesome Swedish veggie subsititute-meat). It was all so good!  Vagabond BakerSo there you go, my 2016 was pretty darn awesome and definitely life-changing. I’m sure some of the events of 2016 will reverberate through the next few years for good or bad, however one thing 2016 has taught me is that there is always light around the corner, especially if you go out and look for it.I have a map sellotaped to the camper’s bathroom door with the route we snaked around Finland in the summer drawn on it with a fluorescent marker. It gives me so much joy to look at it and remember part of the great 2016 adventure. I see the lakes I swam in; the dot where we saw the bears; the national parks where we battled with mosquitoes and feasted on wild berries; the tiny towns where I tested out my limited Finnish trying to find someone to fix our broken down truck.The map reminds me that while life can throw some difficult curve balls, it can also be truly amazing.