The World, Two Weeks at a TimeIf you think you need months and months off work to take an epic adventure, you’ve clearly never seen a list of best 2 week trips like this one. Covering all corners of the earth and featuring fresh, interesting destinations that are more than worth jettisoning all your paid time off at once, they’re the sorts of trips that’ll have you booking as ticket today.I’ll also be sharing inspiration for shorter spurts of traveling that doesn’t fall into the near frame of 2 week travel itinerary ideas. Some of these will be even shorter trips (how does a week road tripping through Canada’s Rocky Mountains in Alberta sound?) while others might be just a week, or slightly longer than two weeks (I hear China is nice this time of year) on the upper end.Which is not to say I intend to ramble in this post. I’m writing about 2 week trips, after all, so time and brevity are of the essence. The less time you spend reading, the more time you can spend making your trip into a reality!The Truth About Shorter TripsWhether we’re talking about the best two week trips or just discussing shorter trips in general, there are several advantages to being on the road for a short (but not too-short) span of time, as compared to some of the more epic sojourns I’ve personally taken. These include the following:Planning a two-week itinerary leaves little room for fat—you’ll only see the best of a destinationMore generally, having fewer days will motivate you to make the most of each one you do haveYou’ll spend less money over the duration of a shorter trip, even if you spend more on a day-by-day basisShorter trips allow you to leave the destination wanting more, without being burnt outNow that we’ve established how awesome it can be to take a shorter trip, let’s talk through some of the best 2 weeks vacation options in the world, shall we?The Best 2 Week Trips on EarthThe Balkans Let’s start out our round-up of 2 week vacation ideas with one you might not have considered: Europe’s Balkan region, which is the area wedged between the Alps, the Black Sea and Greece. For the purposes of my popular two weeks in the Balkans post this includes Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia and maybe Kosovo, but you can expand this to countries like Albania, Bulgaria and Macedonia (or substitute them), depending upon your preferences.Colombia When it comes to the top places to go for 2 weeks within a few hours’ flight of most cities in the US, I can’t think of a better place to go than Colombia. Whether you explore the colonial quarter of Bogot?, rub elbows with digital nomads in Medell?n or bask in the Caribbean ambiance of Cartagena, Colombia is a microcosm of South America as a whole—and I haven’t even gotten to the country’s “Lost City,” its coffee region or the paradise islands that crowd its northern coast.Ethiopia Not at the best two week vacations I’m listing here are for the faint of heart. Case in point: Ethiopia. While spending two weeks in Ethiopia will force you to choose one region of this massive country (I’m partial to the north), you can nonetheless cover a lot of ground. Touch down in Addis Ababa, then head north to cities like Bahir Dar, Gondar and Lalibela, finishing up in the Danakil Depression at the literal “Door to Hell.”Israel If you’re on the hunt for the best 2 week trip and don’t mind a flight halfway around the world, but can’t deal with the utter chaos that is Ethiopia, Israel is another potential option. Famously “the size of New Jersey” and as packed-to-the-gills with awesome destinations as it is people (and camels), Israel is made for a two-week trip. Starting in Tel Aviv, you can explore destinations as diverse as Jerusalem, the West Bank, the Sea of Galilee and even the Red Sea Port of Eilat during 2 weeks in Israel.Japan I consider Japan to be the top travel destination in the entire world, so it’s probably not shocking that it’s a contender for the best place to travel for 2 weeks. However, whether you spend two weeks in Japan or a much longer period of time, be warned: Every experience you have here will inspire you to plan countless future trips, whether wondering the streets of futuristic Tokyo, exploring temples in Kyoto or discovering underrated parts of the country like Shikoku and Tohoku.Nepal If you’re up for adventure (and I literally mean up—the altitude here is skyscraping!), the Nepal might be the best two week vacation ideas you’ll ever take. Personally, I recommend following up a few days in Kathmandu with a week or so trekking along the Everest Base Camp route, followed by brief stints in Pokhara and Chitwan National Park, but this colorful country is nothing if not a canvas for travel improvisation.Thailand Rounding out this round-up of 2 week traveling ideas is one of my favorite countries and my former home: Thailand. Divided more or less between Bangkok and the vague regions of “The North” and “The Islands,” 2 weeks in Thailand will take you to familiar destinations like Chiang Mai, Phuket and Krabi, as well as potentially some more obscure ones, including the quiet city of Chiang Rai and off-the-beaten path paradises like the Koh Yao islands.Other Great Short Trip DestinationsWhether we’re talking about 2 week trips, one-week jaunts or even long weekends, here are some other destinations around the world that are perfect for relatively quick getaways:Alberta and the Canadian RockiesThe CaucasusCubaGuadalajara, MexicoIcelandMoroccoSouth KoreaSri LankaTaiwanWhat About Longer Trips?This post has been about the best 2 week trips specifically, and more generally about extolling the virtues of short-term travel. However, I’m not opposed to long-term travel either. For many years, the most popular post on my site was about how to spend 2 months in South America—and that post still receives a ton of traffic, FWIW. Similar posts for Southeast Asia and Europe are also very popular, if only for the simple fact that these larger regions of the world require more time to digest, unless of course you can do them piecemeal over several years.On the other hand, whether because you prefer to travel slowly or go more in-depth than I’ve recommended, it’s also possible to extend many of the best 2 weeks vacation options I’ve listed here. It’s easy, for example, for two weeks in Japan to become 3 weeks in Japan or even a month. Likewise, adding the southern Balkans to my two-week trip, or hiking both Annapurna and Everest when you go to Nepal can easily require you to expand those trips to three or four weeks.How to Deal With Flight DelaysThese days, you hear so much about flight delay compensation it’s easy to forget that the majority of flights arrive and depart on time—that’s the good news. The better news? Depending on where in the world your flight originates or arrives, you could be entitled to serious cash in the event of a substantial delay or cancellation.As you might have read, the region of the world with the most consumer-friendly laws regarding flight delays is Europe, but it’s not the only place. After I explain the ins and outs of EU flight delay compensation, I’ll explain what (if anything) airlines in other top travel markets around the world are required to provide delayed passengers.Whether you’re looking for information on how to submit a flight delay claim, or simply want to learn if you’re entitled to compensation (and, if so, how much), I think you’ll want to continue reading.Flight Delay Compensation in EuropeEurope is the best place to be departing to or arriving from if you’re experiencing a severe flight delay. What is a severe flight delay? European Regulation No. 261/2004 defines this as being exactly or more than three hours. Beyond this, the amount of compensation to which you’re entitled depends upon the length of your flight, which is categorized into three stage lengths: up to 1,500km; 1,500-3,500km; 3,500 km or more.To learn more about how much compensation you’re entitled to, check out the information page air passengers rights resource Flightright has created. They even have a real-time flight tracking widget, which you can use not only to see whether your flight will be delayed but, if so, how much compensation you can expect for the delayed flight, and even instructions on how to file your claim to make sure you get the money you’re owed.Flight Delay Compensation Elsewhere Around the WorldUnited StatesThe issue of airline compensation in the US is particularly contentious, given that carrier United literally bloodied one of its customers who refused to let the airline delay his departure. This is largely because no federal law exists protecting the consumer rights of air travelers. If you are subject to a major delay or cancellation in the US, you have little choice but to take it up with your airline.CanadaThe good news? The Canadian Parliament passed a series of new consumer protections for air travelers, which means you can be compensated up to C$2,400 per incident in the event of unforeseen flight delays. The bad news? It’s Canada, a former British colony, which means that the full list of rules and regulations pertaining to the new law is a twisted mess of legalese, which you can see in full here.AustraliaAs is the case in the United States, flight delay compensation in Australia is dictated by the individual airline, rather than any federal laws or regulations. And just as even “full service” Australian airlines like Qantas and Virgin Australia have been rolling back previously include services to low-cost carrier levels, the extent to which most of them will compensate you in the event of a cancellation is less than awe-inspiring.JapanJapan is probably the country in Asia with a legal system most similar to Europe,  which might lead you to believe that flight delays in Japan would be compensated. Unfortunately, no provision for this exists within Japanese law, at least not as of September 2019. Unless you’re departing Europe (or arriving back there) on a flight to or from Japan, your only hope is to plead with your airline and hope for the best.How Do I File for Flight Delay Compensation?If you’re traveling in Europe and are subject to a flight delay, I recommend consulting with a channel like Flightright, which can not only provide you with up-to-date facts about your protections as enshrined in law, but can advise you about the best way to go about filing your claim. Because of Europe’s leadership in requiring airlines to compensate passengers afflicted by serious delays, the process of claiming your compensation the most set-in-stone here.As far as flight compensation in other parts of the world? That really depends, but in most cases it’s best to speak with the airline directly, especially when you are not guaranteed anything by law. Ask to speak with a supervisor and have specific demands in mind; remember that you can afford to be more forceful under certain circumstance, such as if you’re flying business class, or if you have elite status with the airline or airline alliance.Other Advice for Flight DelaysDon’t quality for flight delay compensation, or can’t manage to get cash from the airline? Not to worry. Here are some tips on how to reduce misery at the airport:Demand honest answers: If you can get staff to admit the delay will be longer than a few hours, this can allow you to leave the airport and go back home or a hotel, and find peace even if it sets you back financially.Take what you can get: On a recent delay departing Osaka, the airline would only offer meal coupons. Still, it was enough for me to buy a bowl of udon and a beer.Try to stand-by—and quick: If you discover that your flight is delayed immediately, contact airline staff and see if you can be accommodated on another flight. If you’re one of the first to request this, you’ll have a better chance.Download or update your mobile app: Airlines often send out mobile alerts before gate agents make P.A. announcements, so make sure you have the latest version of the app.Another way to ward off potentially unsavory side effects of flight delays is to consider a travel insurance policy that includes cancellation or delay protection. In some instances, this might even be covered by your credit card, though you’ll want to read the fine print of your cardmember agreement in order to determine whether this is the case.The Bottom LineThe Poor Man’s Forbidden CityWhen it comes to things to do in Hue, most people’s lists begin and end at the Imperial City, which was home to Vietnam’s emperors not as long ago as you might imagine, based on its condition. I, for one, was eager to visit this site, which a Chinese friend of mine described as the “Third-World Forbidden City,” being that I missed it during my previous trip to Vietnam on account of food poisoning.However, as I made my way northward (vaguely, along the coast) from Hoi An, I realized very quickly that what to do in Hue extends far beyond the Citadel. In fact, while I wouldn’t go so far as to say the Imperial palace felt like an afterthought, it definitely did seem like an epilogue of sorts.Over the next few paragraphs, I’ll call attention to some of the Hue attractions that made me feel this way, and also generally love on the city I now feel might be Vietnam’s most underrated. Your trip to Hue starts today.Of course, food-borne illness wasn’t the only one of the things to do in Hue I partook in back in 2010. I also stayed in a budget hotel so crappy it doesn’t even appear to exist anymore, which is certainly not something I’m lamenting. With this being said, I’d temper my expectations for “nice” Hue hotels, if I were you—they’re not all that, either.You see, I’d been wanting to say at one of the most hyped hotels in Hue, The Scarlett Boutique, for many years. And while the design of this hotel was…ambitious, I felt the service (not to mention, the shitty AC unit) really missed the mark. For a moment I wished I’d splurged on a suite at the swanky Azerai la Residence (or maybe stayed at Saigon Morin for an experience somewhere in the middle), though I definitely never pined for anything simpler.The most shocking thing about the Citadel Hue is centered around? Hue’s Imperial City is only around 200 years old, which is shocking both considering the ornate details of the construction, as well as the shambles it’s not in. Indeed, my aforementioned friend’s description of the Citadel, however unkind, is not inaccurate. The other thing that really impressed me about the Citadel, which I explored just before sunset on my second day in Hue, was how massive it is—it’s at least as big as the actual Forbidden City in Beijing.Let’s go back in time a bit, shall we? But not far. Specifically, to several hours before I visited Hue’s Citadel, when I was traveling from Hoi An to Hue via a delightfully air-conditioned taxi. Just after we passed through Da Nang, my driver asked me if I wanted to travel along the scenic Hai Van Pass, which was four times as long as the straight route through a recently-completed tunnel, but much more beautiful—he did not exaggerate. The better news is that he also didn’t charge me extra for this detour!He did, however, charge me extra when I requested to visit two emperors’ tombs on Hue’s southern periphery, as well as a pagoda whose history I’m still not sure of. It didn’t cost much, however—only about half of what I would’ve paid to take a round-trip excursion from central Hue. With this being said, Minh Mang was the only one of the tombs to live up to the standard other things to do in Hue set, though the view of the Perfume River (more on that in a minute) from Thien Mu Pagoda was extremely gorgeous.After checking in to the aforementioned Scarlett Boutique Hotel, I made my way to one of the best restaurants in Hue to enjoy B?n b? Hu?, a famous local noodle soup—or at least I intended to do so. Problem was, the first restaurant (the highest-rated in the city, for what it’s worth) didn’t exist, at least not at the location Google Maps listed. Thankfully, the sweet crab meat and savory beef inside the soup at Nina’s Cafe was more than satisfying.I mentioned earlier that looking out on the Perfume River from Thien Mu Pagoda had been a highlight of my Hue city tour, at least the chauffeured portion of it. However, my favorite experience along this waterway, known as the Huong in Vietnamese, was at night after I exited the Imperial City. In addition to the fact that Trang Tien Bridge was lit up in a strobe of colors, I found the waterfront promenade (which didn’t exist during my last trip here) to be modern and even chic, which I’m sad to say is rare in Vietnam.Regardless of which things to do in Hue you select for your itinerary, you should prepare to sweat and swelter. Although I spent the two years prior to my latest trip to Hue living in Bangkok, I still found myself overwhelmed by the heat and humidity—even at the junctures of my trip when I had an air-conditioned car to return to after seeing a particular site.On the other hand, while Hue is uniformly hot, there’s definitely a best time to visit Hue if you’re looking to avoid heavy rain. Specifically, the city experiences a monsoon opposite most of the rest of the Southeast Asia mainland, with rain falling between the months of October and April. I learned this hard way back in 2017, when I had to cancel a planned trip to Da Nang (and thus Hue and Hoi An) at the last minute due to a typhoon.How many days in Hue you decide to spend will vary based upon how much the history of Vietnam’s former capital interests you, but here’s a tip: Add one to whatever final value you decide. I spent just two days in Hue on this particular trip, and while I’m a relatively “fast” traveler, I do wish I’d had another day to soak the atmosphere of the city in.On the flip side, it’s possible to take a Hue day tour either from Da Nang or Hoi An, especially if you’re comfortable going by car like I am. This tour will likely include a stop at Hai Van Pass on the way, and will allow you to see more of the top Hue attractions, though you won’t get to walk around at all and develop a feel for this exceptionally charming city.