A Little Insightﾉ What Goes Into a Sustainable Tourism Industry?Around the time that I was struggling to hold down my breakfast, hiking at a clipped pace across the wild Kyrgyz countryside and up a mountain, I realized a few things needed to change. Having just finished hiking 500 miles of Spainﾕs Camino de Santiago a few weeks earlier, I was fit enough for the hike, but not yet acclimated to the altitude, or the breakneck pace.Motioning my guides into a sunny pasture, I collapsed amidst the wildflowers, flushed and thoughtful. Was there a gentler path to the peak we sought, I asked? Could we slow the pace, add breaks where my guide explained the way of life for the Kyrgyz nomads living nearby?His knowledge fluid and his smile quick, my guide began pointing out passes among the distant snowy peaksﾑthatﾕs where he once hunted sly wolves in the dead of winter. And that visible break in the tree line usually boasted sightings of wild animals native to the region (though we were unlucky to spot not a one). He spoke of snow deeper than my wildest imagination some years, and told stories of his family hunkering down in the nearby yurt camp, content in a way of life Kyrgyz nomads have practiced for millennia.I listened, captivated. I made notes, assessed potential, and continued hiking. Hours later, I bounced around ideas for adjustments to the tour with representatives from the local tourism teamﾑa brand new non-profit Destination Marketing Organization (DMO) in the infancy stages of developing English-language tourism in this region of Kyrgyzstan. Working together, we created an itinerary and program for the hike that matched the potential and interest of tourists with the skills and knowledge of local Kyrgyz guides.Seeking a Different Point of ViewIt was my second day on the job in Kyrgyzstan as a consultant for a United States Agency for International Development (USAID) project that had spent the previous three years laying the groundwork for a new layer of tourism infrastructure for the country. A giddy sense of collaborative power seeped into me when I collapsed into my bed that night.For years, Iﾕve written stories underpinned by the central idea that, when done right, tourism can be a powerful force for good. Pairing my book that discussed the ethical pitfalls of international volunteering (a point of view endearing me to few in that industry) with stories of innovative social enterprises from around the world, I have shared hard-won personal perspectives from my decade on the road. My overriding message: responsible tourism is a guiding mindset, not a catchy buzzword.That said, I had never been more than tourist and sometimes expat in these places.Although Iﾕve seen tourism destinations on every range of the spectrumﾑfrom the glitzy shine of Parisﾕ many tours and kitschy souvenirs to hillside villages with nary a guesthouse or restaurant in sightﾑI had never considered what it takes to create a travelable destination.Sustainable tourism only functions well when layers of prep work first ensure a destination has an equitable, community-driven plan to manage tourists and distribute economic benefits across both urban and rural areas. To work long-term, tourist influxes must slot into a purposefully-crafted infrastructure offering places to sleep, trained local guides for hire, and intriguing travel experiences that respect and honor the regionﾕs cultural and environmental value.But that intricate process is just the beginning. The worldﾕs most celebrated travel destinations have identified the unique expectations they can meet once tourists arrive. Itﾕs not a lark when you dream of the food in Italy, the beaches of Fiji, or the wildlife in Tanzaniaﾑeach destination has developed experiences that not only create a cohesive brand identity, but reinforce its unique selling point once you arrive.For 10 years, I have partaken the final product of tourism as I hopscotched the globe, but never before had I been involved in the foundational stagesﾑthe ground floor of creating an entirely new network of experiences that tourists will use for years to come. The project ended in June, and while it was a dead-sprint to the finish line, I am equal parts proud of the results and fascinated by the complex insights bubbling to the surface from my time working with the talented multinational crew who pulled it off. Iﾕve learned more new things about this industry than I dreamed possible. And guys, I loved the work.I have long believed that tourism can be the greatest redistribution of wealth from developed to developing countries. This idea has kept me on the road, kept me sharing here on A Little Adrift, and elsewhere, too.If we travel with a commitment to infusing money locally, it can profoundly effect the very real people living where you travel. As a tourist, I believed this as truth. I spoke about this at universities, just last week at a travel conference, and next month at a conference in Russia. Itﾕs my main message honed over a decade of travel.Now, after witnessing a new side of tourism development, I know it as truth. Hereﾕs how it went down, and a few of the lessons learned from immersing in the flip side of travel industry.A Closer Look: The Projectﾕs Who, What, and WhereThe USAID Business Growth Initiative involved other sectors beyond tourism, but supporting travel and tourism was my singular focus (which, you know, totally makes sense). Kyrgyzstan was among the safest yet more difficult ﾒStansﾓ to travel. Kazakhstan had a fair share of the regionﾕs tourism industry, proving out the interest, so the USAID project would boost the capacity of Kyrgyzstan to compete for independent tourists from destinations outside of the regionﾑappealing foreigners, like me. Whatﾕs more, the project elements that I worked on were a fraction of the tourism projectﾕs scope, which also included the extensive mapping of trekking routes, road signs in English at key points for those road-tripping it, capacity building on the actual hospitality side, and more.My friends Dan and Audreyﾑfellow travelers, tourism consultants, and two of my favorite friends gifted to me by this life on the roadﾑhelped architect the tourist-facing side of this new tourism industry. They assessed five destinations across Kyrgyzstan for tourism potentialﾑwhat was the unique identity of each location that would attract travelers from all over the world? What tours, products, and services would entice travelers to stay longer once there, thus infusing money into the local economy?They exhaustively surveyed everything someone could do in each place, and whittled the list to the most fascinating, immersive, and cultural experiences they should do.When I joined the project in July 2017, a dozen tour products were under development, new experiences that would highlight the best of the regionﾕs culture and food. My role: tell a compelling story for each destination through four local tourism websites. I would write all the content to ensure a wealth of accurate, actionable online travel information so independent travelers could not just visit Kyrgyzstan, but craft an incredible itinerary. I would use my background in sustainable travel and storytelling, coupled with my twelve years of SEO expertise, to solidify the distinct branding of each destination and surface information the rest of the tourism team had spent years putting in place. Dan and Audrey spearheaded the tech side, and together we launched four English language websites into the wild.During my in-country visits, I would also test and finalize tours the DMOs would eventually run for international tourists. Thatﾕs how I found myself running up a peak in the Pamir-Alay Mountains and taste-testing each of the vegetarian-friendly food toursﾑpoor me, right!A Little Reckoningﾉ On Transformative Travel Experiences and 9 Years of TravelTo call it sadness gives it too much weight. But happiness is too vibrant and concrete. I donﾕt feel identifiably happy as I enter my tenth year on the road. At least not toward travel, particularly. Itﾕs more like a heavy uncertainty. My life is pregnant with pause. I am waiting to hear from the Spanish embassy, and if it approves my visa application, I am moving to Spain, for now. If it doesnﾕt, I will move somewhere Stateside. Either way, itﾕs time to get an apartment. I will still travel, but at a different pace. Iﾕll have a home base from which to explore. A place to hang paintings, and a place to welcome friends. It feels right to change the direction of this path I ventured down in 2008. I accomplished so much more than the goals I had dreamed of when I began traveling.Looking back at the 20-something version of myself, packing for her round the world trip, kissing friends and family goodbye, and crying on the way to the airportﾑI was poised on the edge of something great. Facing the uncertainty of my year on the road filled me with exhilarating fear. No matter the cost, I wanted the experience of travel. Absolutely. So I left; I adventured.And years passed. Nine, to be exact.After nine years of travel, I have deeply and fundamentally changed.Which was my intention. Change would have happened either way, even if I hadnﾕt traveled, because nine years is a long time. But when I first nurtured the seed of an idea to backpack around the world, I flirted with the transformation narrative our culture wraps around travel.We are told personal transformationﾑpersonal excellence evenﾑis the result of a well-traveled life.Itﾕs a powerful narrative, an aspiration sold by the media, by the travel literati. The transformation narrative is desirable and sexy. Epic adventuring catalyzes deep internal shifts. Only travel itself unlocks the changes; without the travel experience, you cannot access all that is promised. What you will become is unknowable, the entire promise is possibly unattainable. Uncertainty only increases the appeal.The lure of the transformation pulled at the lightest and darkest parts of my soul. Transformation promised me the opportunity to become the best version of myself, and it promised to lift me from my shameful background. I wanted in on all of that, no matter what it would take to make it happen.ﾉ on my early days.Growing up, I hid much about my life from friends. Around my middle school years I realized my family had issues. Fundamental dysfunction cracked our familial walls and splintered the bright, assumptive ﾒAmerican Dreamﾓ that I had supposed we were living during my early childhood. By my teenage years, it was clear that while there is such thing as being poor with dignity, we werenﾕt that kind of family.At a time when I desperately sought to belong within my peer group, I developed deep shame about my background. I machinated a story of myself that better aligned with the outward version of ﾒnormalﾓ I saw in everyone else. I was good at dissembling; I learned to tell an edited version of my life for ﾒpolite society.ﾓ Others would like me better, better accept me, if they thought my childhood was middle class, too.And it worked, for the most part. I graduated high school with honors and had a bevy of middle-class friends. I was the first in my family to attend university. And yet, life followed me. When I participated in that classic middle-class rite of passageﾑa summer study abroad programﾑI flew home three days into it to bury my brother, the first of several family members who have been taken by the ongoing opioid crisis. His death leveled me. It flattened the colors of my world. I could not edit this family tragedy from my story.It was my first truly transformative experience. I hadnﾕt chosen it, but it fundamentally changed me.Three years later, I would leave on a one-way ticket to travel around the world. I would choose transformation through travel for all the light and happy things I wanted to become, for the lessons I would learn and the knowledge I could forever hold within me. And sure, I was escaping some things, too. That statement feels true. But itﾕs also true that I was running into the next step of healing, of growth. I was escaping my past into a more accepting larger world.We all seek things: acceptance, love, truth. Travel looked like an escape hatch, but not one that would come easy or free. And that, too, appealed to me. Life had shown me at every turn that nothing comes free.ﾉ on creating space for transformation.When I left nine years ago, I gave little conscious thought to what actions catalyze transformation. I had assumed that transformation was a byproduct of setting in motion my plan to travel the world. That didnﾕt bear out as true. To an extent, I had known that I would return from my trip with few epiphanies if I spent a year sunning myself on a beach in TahitiﾑI would be tanner and more relaxed, but little wiser, and unlikely transformed. There isnﾕt a manual on a way to travel that guarantees transformationﾑhad there been one, I would have read it.It took years on the road to realize that deep, lasting, and meaningful personal transformation happened as a result of the connections that I created with new people and cultures.Like many travelers, Iﾕve ticked off the classic bucket list items. I dove the Great Barrier Reef, stood in awe of Petra, and I walked the Camino de Santiago across France and Spain. These adventures satisfied my wanderlust and satiated my craving to see new things and to stimulate my curiosity, but it wasnﾕt the adventures that changed me.As I look back on nine years of travel, I see that this life on the road has afforded me the chance to connect with people from every walk of life. Travel was the shiny wrapping paper around the experiences. Experiences like conversing with indigenous women in rural Mexico, and sunset hiking with Maasai warriors, and even casual conversations over yum kai dao with other expats in Chiang Mai. Years of conversations. Of viewpoints I had never encountered. Of stories I could have never imagined.Hundreds of moments of connection over thousands of days of travel.Itﾕs the one through-line in my travels. Connection is the thread binding to me each experience and memory. Sometimes, memories of beautiful vistas, waterfalls, and mountains blend together, but each story, laugh, and friendship stands as a distinct tick mark on the timeline of my nine years.We have a fundamental need to connect. Perhaps thatﾕs why no one had to teach me that this was my surest path toward personal transformation. We are wired to connect; pro-social behavior is programmed into our brains from birth. But despite these fundamental needs, technology has isolated us from connection. The more time I spend on social media or plugged into my online world, the easier I slip away from this fundamental truth: we require interpersonal connections.Had you told me connection would make all the difference when I left to travel, I would have bought what you were selling. It makes sense. And it makes sense that travel is the ideal way to practice radical connectionﾑtravel friendships are intense and fast. Itﾕs completely normal to meet a new friend and spend the next week eating three meals a day together. Itﾕs a gauntlet of new situations and new opportunities to connect. Travel is a bootcamp for life, honing skills we need, skills that can lay dormant when we maintain a life of routine and familiarity.Over time, however, I discovered that pairing acceptance with connection upped the stakes considerably. The thread that bound connections to me wove acceptance into my life, too. As I connected with new friends and throughout new experiences, I learned to radically accept those on my path. Stay on the road for long enough, and acceptance invariably comes. Acceptance of the people who surprise us and acceptance of the validity of ideas that challenge us. And acceptance of ourselves, too. Somehow, that winds its way through the entire process.ﾉ on what Iﾕve learned along the way.As my travels progressed beyond the first year, and when I realized I would never return to the life I had left in LA, my professional and personal focus changed. Instead of sharing my journey on this siteﾑI founded A Little Adrift to fill the gap in online information about long-term travelﾑI crystalized my focus on sharing stories that shifted the way others see the world. If connection was the root of my personal transformation through travel (and it was), then I wanted to create connections for those who may never travel. I wanted to share stories of the human experience that would eliminate distance and indifference across countries, continents, and cultures.Over the years, my goals continued to shift and my career changed paths. Although I continued to work in online marketing for years, I also began promoting responsible tourism through this site, and through its sister site. And while I shared these stories for others, I was also in my groove. I loved traveling and talking to others. I loved finding these tiny social enterprises and interviewing the founders to learn how others were changing their small corner of the world.The core of responsible travel comes down to experiencing and supporting people as they are. For years, I have entered cultures and communities all over the world to experience and accept them, never looking for the ways I could change them. Instead, I looked for the what I could learn from them. I advocated for travelers to take a journey of curiosity and learning, not a mission of change.I spent years honing my muscles of acceptanceﾑtraining myself to distance my personal desires and beliefs from the people, traditions, and cultures I entered. After hundreds (probably thousands) of conversations of connection and acceptance, after nearly a decade of talking to others (from high school and college students to other travelers to friends and family), I realized that I had healed many of the hurts from my formative years.Deep in my soul, I have always harbored the what-ifs about my family and my life. Everything would have been different if only we hadnﾕt been poor, if we hadnﾕt sometimes lived in squalor. It would have turned out happy and healthy if my brothers had chosen education over drugs and crime.I had deep shame about my background and I was unable to accept that I could not change or control the situation. Even as a teen, I tried to lift us from that, to forever shift our circumstances so thatﾑas a wholeﾑwe were not identified with that income bracket, with being lower class, with being poor white trash. Itﾕs not that I hated our poverty; I hated that we could not see our way through it.And man would I love to say that I reached adulthood and figured it out, that I accepted each person in my family for who they are. I didnﾕt. And when dominoes of bad befell my four brothers, I doubled down. I was desperate to save us. I channeled my anger and hurt into going even further, into insisting that we become a different family. I demanded that we break the cycle with the next generation, my nieces and nephews. Even as I traveled, this unhealthy shame and need for change bound me to my hometown in Florida.With each passing year, however, acceptance seeped through the cracks. It slithered around these long-held hurts and shame. It healed parts of me that I had never known needed a balm.Travel has brought me profound joys. It brought me new friends, forever friends who have changed my life for the better. It brought laughter, struggle, and interest to my days. But itﾕs the process of connection and acceptance that transformed me into the person I am today.Traveling doesnﾕt transform you. At least not the act of travel. Instead, traveling becomes shorthand for the journey you consciously choose when you set foot out your door. Is your journey one of returning from a beach in Tahiti, nine years later and significantly more tan? Or is it a purposeful act that sets in motion your personal transformation.Like most things in life, neither choice is inherently right or wrong, but the outcomes vary greatly.I traveled with a goal of personal transformation, and I succeeded on that front. After nine years of travel, I am deeply and fundamentally changed.