10 Gifts Travel Gives Us That Can’t Be Bought on AmazonTravel is selfish.No matter how much we do for the world and the people we meet while traveling, travel gives us so much more. Because of travel, I have a wealth of knowledge and experiences you can’t add to your online shopping cart; that you can’t capture on Netflix or even in this article.The world and the people we meet go beyond a vacation instagram photo.In light of the holiday season, I would like to share what my trips to 37 countries and 18 U.S. States have given me. I figured a few of you might relate :)1. Problem-Solving Skills & Crisis ManagementIf you’ve ever tried to get from the Danang airport to Halong Bay, Vietnam[without a tour operator] or hike Mt. Fuji, Japan by yourself before the last 4 PM bus, you know what I’m talking about.Stir in those times of study abroad or trying to get a job as an immigrant (expat — whatever PC term you prefer), occasions of food-poisoning or zero connection to the Internet world; you’d be surprised how much travel toughens us up.Murphy’s Law might curse the traveler, but it’s these inconveniences that take us from panic mode to problem-solving ninja.Travel teaches us to strategize over and over, both in long-term planning and with spontaneous game plans. Because of my nomadic lifestyle, every day routines we take for granted can be shockingly difficult (like ordering vegetarian from a side cart in Thailand, figuring out the shower-head … again, or just getting from Point A to Point B — like anywhere overseas).But, you figure it out. You handle it.High-five to the travelers who have ever put themselves in and out of a rut.2. Child-like Bewilderment for LifeThe more we learn about other places, cultures, and activities — the more we realize how much we don’t know. Pretty sure that’s a quote somewhere.I’m fascinated not just by how people live so differently on the day to day, but how much we also have in common. Kids are easily amused: give them a box and they’ll assemble a fort. The gift of travel creates a similar enthusiasm. A building, a dining experience, an accent might give you a thrill.Everything is so much cooler when you’re traveling.3. ToleranceIt may be too bold to say that travel makes us less shallow. Oops, I said it anyways.The more we see outside our norm, the more open-minded we become. And while we may not agree with everyone’s lifestyle — it becomes easier to love, or at the very least tolerate, differences. The world would be boring if we were all the same anyways, but it’s the wisdom and direct exposure to people very unique from ourselves that let’s us say “hey, yep, maybe not everyone in the Middle East is a terrorist.”4. Clarity in What We Really Want & Who We Really AreAs an American, I have certain agencies. This means that I have particular rights, privileges, and powers. It’s almost 2016, and others I still don’t have.As a citizen of the world, I get an upgrade. I get to see myself in comparison to my society, and groups of people totally different than me. I get to decide what I do and don’t like about my culture because of how many other cultures I’ve been exposed to.  I have a better understanding of  lifestyle options and don’t just have to be who my society tells me to be. 5. Friends I Never Would Have MetI have friends around the world, and while it hurts me not to have magic powers, being with everyone everywhere at the same time, I can say someone’s got my back in a lot of places (and vice versa).6. Dependence and IndependenceWhen we travel, especially solo, we learn to take care of ourselves. We also learn that we need people, sometimes complete strangers, to help us help ourselves. There’s just some things you can’t do without a friendly stranger.It’s a nice feeling to challenge ourselves and know how much we can handle. However, just like a child’s bewilderment, we have kid-like limits while traveling, especially over-seas. There’s an irony to learning how strong we are, but also how weak we are; that’s why travelers help each other. 7. Gratefulness for the Most Basic NecessitiesIf you’ve ever been glacier hiking in Patagonia and just assumed a shop would offer sandwiches only to find yourself hungry and sharing lunch with back-packers — you know just a sample of missing out on life’s most basic needs.As a traveler, we are bound to end up hungry, lost, afraid, dirty, robbed or somehow left without currency, perhaps without a place to stay, and even lonely. Sometimes, the biggest problem isn’t trying to find wifi, but finding someone that understands you — and I’m not just speaking language barriers.Not to mention, witnessing how much others don’t have.The people working every day in developing nations, who are happy to be without much, get me every time. Those first world problems come to life during your first trip abroad.8. Confidence in MyselfI won’t speak for everyone, but gosh darn travel has made me happy and confident. Maybe it’s the problem-solving; maybe it’s the appreciation for differences. It could be finding a global community, or the bewilderment; but something about travel is just short of an ego boost. Try it and you’ll see.9. Hope through KindnessPeople can be so cruel. Yet every time you’ve been a traveler in need, someone will pull through. It might not be the same person every time, but someone will be there.You too share kindness and give people hope. It’s the hope we give others which keeps our own alive.10. Appreciation for the people I love at home.I guess,  if home is where the heart is, my heart is everywhere. In the physical absence of my friends and family, I’ve come to realize, even when I’ve left — they’re always still there. Love is so much louder in the presence of absence, and so travel has given me the power to love harder.It’s all that travel that made me realize: it was never the travel itself that made me happier or wiser, but the way that it has given me … me.An Open Letter to New Grads: No One Knows What They’re DoingDear New Grads ,It doesn’t matter if you have five jobs lined up after graduation, are fleeing to South East Asia or invested four years into pre-med only to realize you don’t want to work in medicine…You have no idea what you’re doing.Seriously, even if you think you know what you’re doing, you don’t.Neither do the rest of us.Don’t worry, this isn’t a bad thing and I’ll explain why.Firstly, allow me to introduce myself (my name is HOV, HEY.. jk). My name is Stephanie Be and I graduated from UCLA in 2012. I thought I had it all figured out.I had half a dozen job offers after graduation. A long list of student activities, dance, Greek life and a rich network from far too many internships. Upon graduation, I bought a one-way ticket to travel the world (I am not advising that you do this, this isn’t about what I did… it’s about what I’ve learned). My gap year never really came to an end. I’ve traveled to over 40 countries, and as an entrepreneur — small-business owner — I have friends in the creative industry, trade skills, in corporate America, medicine — you name it.Four years post cap-and-gown, I can confirm that no one really has “it” figured out. Life is always throwing us curve balls, and even when you think you have something figured out, a new challenge will come your way (like babies, death, debt prevention). As I prepare to watch my brother and his friends walk the same path I walked to the podium, I’ll let you in on a little secret…It sounds generic, cliche even. But it’s true. So as you scrutinize yourself to determine your present and your future, please know the following:1. Your career does not define you.Whether you choose to make a lot of money to be able to afford the things you love, or you choose to do the things you love whether or not you’ll make a lot money, is up to you. Neither path is better than the other.That being said, you can choose to find love in any work you do, and yes, the really fun looking jobs probably won’t make you much income (at least at first, if ever).Do not feel limited by your 9-5 (or 8).2. Everything in life is a cost-benefit equation.I’ll reiterate this one…The benefit of getting that promotion or breaching the next salary bracket might come at the cost of working longer hours or learning new skills — maybe even working for a company you don’t see yourself at long term.The benefit of having a flexible schedule or pursing a passion-project might come at the cost of financial stability or job security.Whichever path you take demands sacrifices and reaps perks.3. You’ll probably switch careers or at least consider it.I’ve tried several different things to get to where I am.I’ll add that I have friends and former classmates who changed their minds too. Consider the friend with a Masters in National Security pursuing fashion; the top finance exec and the dentist obsessed with photography; the one who swapped dentistry for pharmacology; the girl who went to law school and never practiced law; the guy who builds websites, but made partner at a law firm by twenty-seven; the one joined the NFL and all of those who didn’t.It’s almost unfair that at seventeen or twenty-one we’re supposed to know what we want to do with the rest of our life.Society changes with time. We change with time. Change can be terrifying, but it can be great.So go ahead, switch careers if you want to. You didn’t lose a year, four years or half a lifetime. That fear alone isn’t worth losing a future in something that might be a better fit. 4. Learn financial management.I never understood why we don’t learn about taxes in middle school. Money makes the world go round. This isn’t a secret – you need to make enough money to support the type of lifestyle you would like to live. So either live more frugally/ simply or pick a career that makes more money.Talk to a counselor, mentor, parents and friends to set realistic goals.5. Travel or live in a new city at least once. Expose yourself to people different than you. Change the system.It is typical in many cultures for people to take a gap year or regular, annual sabbaticals. Yes, in certain parts of the world, people get more than two weeks paid vacation and get off on time without being considered lazy.Work hard and work smart, but fight the American system that demands that we only work. Fight for attainable education. Just imagine how expensive schooling will be by the time you have kids!6. There is no such thing as self-made. Your success is constructed by the community you’re in.Whether you were born into privilege, earned your way into it (or experienced both), you owe yourself AND the people in your life your success.Outside of your hard and soft skills, your network is your most powerful professional asset.Identify and follow mentors. Carefully choose your friends (and partners).Let go of bad influences. Some people in our lives were only meant to be temporary. It doesn’t make them bad people, it just means that they can serve their purpose in one chapter and not fit into the rest of your story. Not every person (or every job) is meant for forever.7. We are not invincible, but we are strong.With rising technology, our generation has a lot more agency, more access to information and more mobility.Yet we are human. With the recent shooting at my Alma Matter, I probably don’t need to remind you how easy it is for us to have everything taken. I learned this lesson my Junior year, when my Senior friend celebrated graduation and her night out drinking was met by a car accident.I beg you to be gentle with yourself. Don’t work yourself to insanity. Don’t party yourself to your casket. I’m a big believer of “work hard, play hard” too. I want to live life to the fullest, but sometimes living life to the fullest is just emotionally, physically, mentally, and spiritually making time for the people you love — including yourself.That being said, you can choose to challenge yourself and the society we live in.It’s not a perfect world, but we must continue to fight for each other.Vote. Stand up to bullies and predators. Protect each other. Be kind. Love each other.Because we may not know where our next career is taking us, but at the end of the day, it won’t be our degree that defines us. It’ll be the impact we’ve left on the people we’ve met — and even those we’ll never get to meet.You — not your career — is your legacy. Sincerely,Your elders. Perhaps wiser, but continuously not knowing what we’re going.Why I’m Not Sorry You Broke UpAs he sent her a Whatsapp from across the globe – seventeen hours in time difference – he casually revealed the punch line:They broke up.Should she send her condolences? Drop a cliche line of comfort?No need.She was genuinely unsorry for the break up, the way that I have been unsorry for all of mine.Sorry, I’m not sorry.It is not the individuals that are broken, but rather an independence that is gained.A break up is freedom. Single, is free.Free to pursue one’s selfish desires in work, family, friendship, travel, and leisure.Free to invest our time, money, and energy on our “self.”Free to meet the person it should have been all along.If we’re “taken” by the wrong person, how are we supposed to meet the right one?After all, someone once said that when we meet the right person we’ll suddenly understand why no one else worked out.So while she could have politely responded with “I’m so sorry to hear that,” she didn’t.She was unsorry for the opportunities he had gained.ecause while making sacrifices for the ones we care about — getting that job you must take, staying in that city, sharing our time — is worth the right person, it is just that: for the right person. To be clear, in no way am I implying that commitment is a burden, but like everything else, it’s a cost-benefit equation.He had realized his autonomy. Again he could prioritize to country hop, he could explore his career options and continue to explore himself.Could he possibly have done that with her? Perhaps.But when two became one, one became free. Free to find the one, that was the one all along.Baby don’t buy me roses. Take me somewhere new.I’m single, and I guess I really like it. I feel free to roam and travel. To explore and adventure. To take cliche travel quotes and associate them to real experiences.I haven’t found the urge to find another ‘half’ because I’ve felt ‘whole’ as a traveler.When you travel, you discover more than places, you discover yourself.But if I did have a boyfriend, husband or lover, I’d want him to know the following:Baby, don’t buy me roses, take me somewhere new.Swim with me in the Great Barrier Reef and help me overcome my fear of drowning.Hike with me along Mt. Fuji to leap high above the clouds with only the sky below us.Let’s enjoy a pirate ship dinner on King’s Landing… a real life Game of Thrones, b*txh!Hug me like the elephants in Chiang Mai, and make my heart beat like the boa wrapped around me in the Amazon.Show me that “Splash Waterfalls” is more than a dirty Ludacris song. Let’s dive into Iguazu Falls.Let’s redefine a British “tee” party and rage on to the “Holy Grail” at Wireless Festival.Make me say “Ha Long” will this moment last in Vietnam, and take me to a better place Down Under.Give me the security to take real life risks, not those as simple as bungee jumping in Queenstown.After all, being an adrenaline junkie is a habit, but life-changing decisions are another kind of rush.Consider expat life, or a month long vacation.Let’s learn to sail Whitsunday Islands and run with the bulls in Pamplona.Baby, let’s do everything we’ve dreamed of, and let’s create new dreams, hopes, and goals once we’ve finished those.Well, oops, I’ve already done those things without you.I guess we don’t need someone special to create memorable moments. If I do find a fellow lover of living, truly living, I won’t have to tell him to not buy me flowers because flowers die. He will know to take me to a forest on his own.