HOW I BECAME FLUENT IN SPANISH IN LESS THAN A YEARI am being nostalgic for the language I haven’t spoken for a long time in the same manner that I am reminiscing the first few weeks that I was trying hard to speak Spanish. I laugh. It’s hilarious! It was so hard to remember the person I used to be!Spanish is beautiful and in fact, it is my favorite language in the world! I love how it sounds, I love saying it and I how I am able to express myself in this language is really surprising for me.Below are seven tips that helped me become fluent in Spanish in a span of 3-4 months! 1. LISTEN TO SPANISH SONGSDon’t just listen to it. Sing it! Whenever I arrive a country, I make sure that I always have a background of their music. Who is this country’s Beyonce or Mariah Carey? What are the classics? Good thing Spotify also changes whenever I move so I can always browse for suggestions. I love this app! Using Spotify also lets me see what my local friends are listening to so I can just simply click it without asking them for a list of songs. Most of my friends listen to indie rock but I drifted in that department. I’d like to know the song that everyone knows; the songs they listened to growing up; tunes they danced to during their teenage rocking years. I recommend artists like Paulina Rubio, Carlos Vives and Andres Calamaro. My Latin friends are very surprised because I know every word of their songs. They usually hate their own music but even if they do, I promise you, they will always know the lyrics of the songs of the three artists I suggested above.You don’t need to understand the lyrics right away. Once you already know how to sing it, you will slowly understand every word and phrase of it. 2. CHANGE YOUR PHONE SETTINGS TO SPANISHWhether you have an iPhone, a tablet or a laptop, change everything to Spanish. It will get really confusing at first but you’ll get used to it. I realized this was very effective as I was also able to apply it to conversations. For example, I learned how to say “restart the computer” or “send me a message” through this method. It really helps! You will also learn some words such as settings, profile, force quit, and all other common words used in gadgets. 3. OBSERVE OTHER PEOPLE’S EXPRESSIONSI am a freaking sponge and I realized this when I was moving country to country and also changing my Spanish expressions. There will always be a phrase that locals would always include in their sentences and you better watch out for that. When I was in Barranquilla, they loved saying “Ey marica” while the Argentinians add “che” and “boludo” in all of their sentences. Learn the background of every country’s expression and along the way, by spending time with the locals, you will learn how to use it correctly.FUN FACT: Che Guevara is Argentinian and his real name is Ernesto. He was called “che” because he kept on including the word in all of his sentences. In Argentina, che means mate, dude or buddy and three other things. I will discuss this in the future! 4. PLAY A GAME WITH YOUR FRIENDSPeople will always be afraid to correct you even if you ask them. I told my friends a lot of times to correct me every time I said something in Spanish incorrectly and they still don’t do it! One time, while we were in a club, I was surrounded with six Ecuadorians and I asked them if we could play a game. Whoever corrects me first in every wrong sentence I say gets a free beer! Luckily, I didn’t end up making them drunk thought I must say, my time in Ecuador was level 2 Spanish for me. Think of something that will motivate the people around you to help you learn Spanish. Free stuff is always a good idea. 5. DON’T BE AFRAID TO MAKE MISTAKESI know I’ve said this before but just talk, talk and talk! There was never a time that I was insecure with my Spanish even if I know it is 100% incorrect. One problem that this human race cannot get over with is making mistakes. Why is it always hard for us to get out of the comfort zone and make beautiful mistakes? I understand how others get humiliated whenever they speak another language incorrectly but that should not stop them from learning! South America is very understanding to foreign Spanish speakers and believe me, they will always try to understand. They will never make fun of you except if you have the kind of crazy friends that I have. HAHA! 6. PRETEND THAT YOU UNDERSTAND EVEN IF YOU REALLY DON’TI know it’s hard but for me, it was part of an experiment. I wanted to test my listening skills. Whenever I say “que?” (meaning, I didn’t get what the other person said), they will always shift to English because they think it will be easier for me to understand. That’s not the point! You can’t really blame locals because not everyone’s patient with helping foreigners learn the language so you have to do it your own way. When I first went to Peru, I tried to pretend that I don’t speak English. It worked because they think I am Japanese, Thai or Chinese and only learned Spanish here. Nobody spoke to me in English for days and I struggled everyday trying to understand the fast paced Spanish that everyone were speaking. They only knew that I spoke English when a British dude was asking for directions. Nobody seemed to understand and the dude seemed too lost that I was forced to jump in and help. They all looked at me like with their WTF expressions then I explained that I needed to pretend I don’t speak English so I can learn more Spanish. In the long run, the experiment worked. My listening skills were honed. 7. DO NOT GO TO A LANGUAGE SCHOOL!You will be wasting money, time and you will never learn anything. I kept thinking how one can learn Spanish in a country where no one speaks the language? How can you practice? How can you apply what you “learned?” You’re not in school all day and those one-hour language classes you will take will cost big bucks. You end up responding the only word everyone says whenever they are asked if they learned Spanish: “un poco.” So after all those five levels of lessons you took and how much it cost you, you can only say one sentence? If you really want to take classes, make sure that you can practice with a local by joining language exchange groups.Come out here. Experience the world. Hear the words first hand from the locals. Have a tangible experience! Today, after 15 months of travelling South America, I must say I am very surprised with my Spanish skills I couldn’t believe it myself!Here’s a fun video of me singing Spanish, mimicking Latinos expressions and explaining the seven items above briefly. Enjoy!CASABLANCA: GETTING A HOLD OF MOROCCO7:05pm light. Back in the Philippines, this time is total darkness.Finally, I am in Casablanca and really excited. For the first three (3) days, I was sleeping and eating well. I’m really happy about it! My first day was okay. I had nice Moroccan food and watched Casablanca — the beauty of redundancy as per Gervin. After watching, I was surprised by a dinner reservation at Rick’s Cafe Americain!!!I have a few observations during my few days of stay here and I want to share it with you.First, they are football fans — Spain fans actually. Morocco is near Spain borders so you will notice where the idolization is coming from. People wear Madrid, Barcelona and national team jerseys on a daily basis. Children play football on the streets too! Sunday was the Confederations Cup 2013 finals (Spain vs Brazil). We looked for a place to watch the game. We can watch it in the hotel, really. But what I want is an awesome game-watching experience. I want to see how the Moroccans scream every time Casillas saves. We arrive at this small cafe with a flat inch TV where everyone is watching silently. I was wearing my Barcelona jersey and everyone was just looking at me. Not looking but staring!I don’t know if it’s the jersey or what. I started checking myself: I was wearing pants (check). I have sleeves (check). I was decent (check). Not until I figured that they like to look at Asians here. They find Asians very beautiful because not too many Asians come here. Yes, in my flight, I was the only Asian girl and the Chinese flight attendant. On the streets, it’s only me. So people keep looking. At first it was really a bit uncomfortable but I got the hang of it as days passed.In cafes, I noticed that there were more men than women. I really wanted to take pictures but I am all the time shy (they will stare at you, really) because of too many reasons. Maybe they won’t allow me also. Well at least I should try, noh?The women were working their asses off. When we got Francisco‘s sim card at Maroc Telecom, all the counters are being served by women and that’s the first time I discovered their nest. They are working while the men drink coffee and smoke in cafes. But, I would want to justify this observation by talking to locals. I wish I can do that soon!Marche CentralI was, for a minute separated to Francisco at Marche Central (Commercial Centre in Moroccan cities) when a guy approached me in a very weird way. I was sitting on a bench beside a store when he just stood there, walked around and pretend to be looking at the shop windows. Then he blurted:“Enjoying your stay in Casablanca?”“So far, yes. It’s my third day here.” He didn’t even say hi or introduced himself.He’s teaching German on the top floor of the store and told me about sites in Casablanca, where to go, what to eat, places to see, etc. I told him I wasn’t travelling alone and pointed at the building where Francisco was.“Oh, maybe we can go out tomorrow, you know. I can take you around. Give me your number.”“I’m moving to Tangier tomorrow so I won’t be staying long in Casablanca. But thank you for the offer.”Then he walked away. He was decent really. I did not feel harassed at all. I never told you about my CouchSurfing message board story where I received almost 50 messages from Moroccan guys asking me when I will be in Casablanca, Marrakesh, Agadir etc. They all wanted to meet me and take me out! Well I trust the community but these message flood that I got was crazy! Taxi sharing.I have epic stories about our experiences with cabs and it deserves an individual post. First off, you can share a taxi with other people! Turns out that they have two (2) or three (3) meters for every passenger. That’s kind of awesome too!They speak French like the Filipinos speak English. It’s the second language here. I figured that out when Francisco said “the taxi driver was nosebleeding.” Well the main language is Arabic (which I haven’t started learning) and they talk to foreigners in French. Good thing I have a walking translator with me (Francisco). I won’t have any problems. So I’m telling you, if you want to come here by yourself, I advise you learn a little French. They don’t recognize English much.I will be in Tangier soon and hopefully cross to Ceuta, Spain for a few days!THE COST OF YOLOThis is not a form of discouragement. Before you read this, please remember that we are friends, sitting down on your porch (or mine), sipping wine (or coffee, whatever you prefer) while watching the sun set, talking about the recent life changes that appeared in many different forms. In short, you and me, are slowly accepting we are adults.I recently wrote about my 4-year old advice about quitting your job to travel the world that made your world spin like a fast toy top: “It took me years to find the courage to quit my job to travel the world and now this travel blogger bitch I followed all this time is taking it back.”It might have been confusing to you because it really is to me. But what made me write that post is again, finding myself in a different circumstance.I never wanted to grow up. I wanted my grandparents to live forever, for my skin to stay less damned, to smoke and not feel my lungs falling apart, to drinking 10 bottles of wine (with tequila shots in between) without having to deal with the hangover the next day, to carry 90L backpacks for the rest of my life, to live in different places every time I had the chance, to speak more languages fluently easily, to be able to move and move far and wide.‘Age is just a number’ stayed as the strongest mantra through those 7 years I was traveling without having a home; without having to go back home. I still believe in it but my body seems to disagree.My grandmother died in 2014 and now my grandfather is very ill. My skin is becoming more damned each day as I struggle to make up for it from all those years I didn’t care. I wake up every morning and I feel like my lungs are breaking into pieces. I drink 1 glass of wine and still gets hangover the next day. I shifted to a small luggage – I can’t even take a small backpack for 3 weeks of travel. While the endless moving still excites me, it wore me out. I decided to make Tel Aviv as my base for the time being. Along with this, I am trying to learn Hebrew relentlessly. Even if I can speak 5 different languages, my cognitive skills are not that sharp anymore. It’s rejecting the Hebrew progress. All of these limited my ability to move far and wide.This change in the human body is something I don’t have control of. As a person who has moved and moved and moved all her life, I am still in the process of learning how to not abuse the capacity of the human body.MY VISA IN NEVERLAND EXPIRED SO I WAS FORCED TO GROW UP. (SHIT!)What is this adulting thing? How the fuck do I do this? The confusion is not only to add drama to my life but I was really at a point in my life where I didn’t know what to do. “You traveled to 70+ countries, live outside your country all your younger years, learned to be by yourself all this time – why is this hard for you?!”With the experiences I accumulated from years and years of travel, I had the assurance that I am un-freaking-breakable. The constant reminder to myself that “I know everything. I can do anything” is still there but when I entered this adulting world, I felt like I needed to enrol to a short course.“Bills? What bills? Why can’t the freaking bills pay themselves?”YOLO in Cusco, Peru: beating the cold and altituted with shitloads of alcohol.Now that I have my own apartment in Tel Aviv (which I love so dearly), I have to do things I’ve never done before. Bills. I, fortunately, have the money for the bills (thank God. I don’t want to go back to being a poor backpacker again) but I don’t have any idea how to pay them. You might say it’s easy (because it really is!) but bear in mind that you and I didn’t have the same life situations growing up. I was always out there jumping to different cities, galloping continents and shuffling relationships left and right. I never had to pay bills myself. You know, to be physically and mentally present in the billing process.My house rent wasn’t paid on time the other day but the money is already there. Like many travelers who took their time on the road, going back to society requires looking at time. Having the sense of urgency has been very difficult for me because I never deemed it important. For me, life was an endless stream of taking all the time I need. Fudge! My travel evolution is getting more serious each day.THE COST OF YOLO Again, this is not meant to discourage you. Remember we are 2 friends sitting down on your porch (or mine), sipping wine (or coffee, whatever you prefer) while watching the sun set, talking about the recent life changes that appeared in many different forms. In short, you and me, are slowly accepting we are adults.I can see that you are still in a different train station and denying that we are ageing but it’s fine. You might be 5-7 years younger than me. Oh no, actually, let’s put it that way. You are younger than me and is about to go out there and do some life-changing “sabbatical”.To YOLO is not a joke. This shit is real. YOLO is freaking true. Most of our friends make silly jokes about it but it’s serious and you should do it. Kiss a boy (or a girl), sleep on the street, cross a border for 5 days, try everything and do everything that makes you curious because You Only Live Once.But don’t forget it comes with a price. Good news though – you really can YOLO without the money. I am going to be 29 in exactly 37 days and I now I am looking at all those times I traveled without (a lot of) money but still made it.Oh, don’t get me wrong. I wasn’t able to travel the world with zero money. While those travel for free articles you read on the Internet are true to those who right it, did anyone explain to you it comes with hard work, too? Are you stuck in that belief that there is such thing as free travel?Let me tell you some of my remarkable YOLO stories that involved spending a lot of money.