I was about three months into my journey, sitting at an outdoor cafe in Phnom Penh and drinking a beer, monopolizing the wifi. It was rush hour, 5pm, and as I was hanging out I saw a full-grown elephant come walking down the street, minded by her trainer and wearing shoes made from recycled tires.The same thing happened the next day. And the day after that.And that was when I realized how much my life had changed: I no longer thought “Holy #$#!, there’s an elephant in the road!” but instead: “Oh, there’s the elephant. It must be five o’clock”.It’s a wonderfully weird world.I’m sitting in a farang restaurant in Chiang Mai, Thailand. I’m there for the fast wifi and cold beer, eating a cheeseburger. An American man sitting next to me decides to chime in: “I see you’ve come halfway across the world to eat American food.”Now, this is a tourist place — their Thai food sucks. It’s toned down for Westerners. If you want real Thai food, you go to a place with plastic tables and chairs and sit in the heat. He’s eating what appears to be the worst plate of pad thai ever made. They don’t even have chili in this joint. If you ask for chili, they bring you a bottle of tabasco.Heresy.“How long have you been in Thailand?” I ask.“The wife and I have been here for six days now. We’ve got a couple more before flying back.”“Oh. That’s nice.” I just let the comment hang there — I’m not going to give him the satisfaction of explaining my story.And, of course, after a minute he takes the bait. “How long have you been traveling?”“Four years. I’ve eaten my body weight in Thai food. And sometimes I just want a friggin’ burger.”That pretty much ends the conversation.I wish I had better news. I’ve written about my experience of being offered an 8-year-old girl for the night at my hotel in San Pedro de Atitl?n from a man named Pedro. I sent the guy’s photo to over twenty agencies and eventually heard from a man at the embassy in Guatemala.Six weeks ago they’d sent an undercover agent to the hotel and he was given the same offer: “Do you want an 8 year-old girl for the night?” My contact told me they were organizing a raid but had to wait on the government to authorize it. I hadn’t heard anything from him in awhile but got in touch last week. I had to email him a few times but he finally responded back: “Pedro got fired from his job — too many complaints about him overcharging and stealing. He’s driving a tuk tuk now.”And this is why I didn’t go to the local police: someone in the force heard that Pedro was being watched and warned him. Agents have tried twice to bait him but he’s laying low. The fix is in.It’s so frustrating and it makes me sick but it’s become a waiting game.I’m from Texas and awhile back (as in a depressingly I-feel-so-old while back), the state hired a marketing agency to help with combatting littering. The agency decided that Texans were a bit of an ornery bunch and “Please don’t litter” wouldn’t resonate. So they came up with “Don’t Mess with Texas”.And it was a success. Most Texans threw beer bottles from their car window less than half as often as before. But that didn’t prepare me for this sign in Bohol, Philippines. I may litter but I’ll be damned if I’m going to pee there.It’s late but today’s ‘power nap’ has spun me. I dig through my tiny fridge and the pickings are thin. I need ice, bread and cheese. I’ve just invested in an electric wok for my room and midnight-hour grilled cheese sammiches are high on the list of things to shovel into my mouth-hole.Normally, I’d just walk across the street and grab ice and beer from the Mom-n-Pop but they’re closed at this hour. The matriarch, who I just call ‘Mama’ would normally sell me a bag of ice, shoveled from a large cooler for 5 baht. And she always says “Ice. five baht!”. I could buy 500 baht’s worth of beer and she wouldn’t say a thing but for some reason, she insists on reminding me that ice = money.She’s bent double. A handful of decades spent picking and planting rice have left her unable to stand up straight. This is common throughout Asia. I try to help and sometimes she lets me shovel the ice into a bag. Sometimes she slaps my hand and does it herself. Pride is pride and it blankets the world.But she’s (hopefully) in bed now and I have to walk the back streets to the Tesco Lotus, some 10 minutes away. Bread, cheese, booze, ice — most everything you want on a quiet night…Midway I pass two Thai men, sitting by the edge of the soi, obviously shitface drunk and laughing boisterously. The one to the left has timed it right, catching his buddy with a laugh just as he’s taken a sip of whiskey.The poor guy is struggling not to lose it and his friend is pouring it on — I can’t understand a word but I know: there is no greater joy for a smartass than making someone spray liquid through their nostrils. I have no idea why this is but I’ve found it to be pretty universal. It’s like the “pull my finger” joke. Everyone knows it.I find myself laughing out loud and my smartass buddy notices me for the first time but continues his verbal attack. We nod at each other and both instantly know:We are kin.The grilled cheese is good, later, but it can’t top that.I was three days into my trip, in Bangkok. I’d jumped off the cliff, in my mind, and was chasing something impossible. I found myself sitting on a curb next to Gary Arndt of EverythingEverywhere.com eating street food and listening to him give me blogging tips. Jodi of Legal Nomads had introduced us and sat on the other side.Some of the tips held up, some didn’t — the web moves at a fast pace. But that wasn’t the point. I was a new blogger, scared and unsure, finding my footing, and the world’s biggest travel blogger was eating meat on a stick next to me and sharing tips for my dream gig.I can’t begin to tell you how inspiring that was.So when he offered to run a post of mine, it kind of brought it all around. Full circle.And I’m honored and grateful. This is a tale about a character I met in Guatemala. I hope you like it:I’ve been traveling for awhile now and have learned that, as Twain said, “travel is fatal to prejudice, bigotry, and narrow-mindedness”. I walked away from a job where I sat at a desk in a fancy chair and a life that involved a lot of tv watching, drinking expensive beers and hanging out with friends at restaurants and bars.To me, that was the ‘Real World’.When I began this journey, I was –in my mind– heading into something that was exotic and enticing but somehow less than my world at home. It was a foolish conceit.I couldn’t have been more wrongThese are things that happen in the Real World:real-world-1I’m sitting at a cafe in a beach town, Moaboal, in the Philippines and I’m talking to a mototaxi driver at an outdoor table. He’s young and eager and has ferried me to the ATM and supermarket a couple of times now on the back of his motorcycle.When I ask him how many children he has, he says “Five. Three girls and two boys.” The conversation wanders for a bit and then he stops me in the middle of what I’m sure was a fascinating and clever story.He stares at the ground. “I’m sorry, Johnny. I lied to you. I only have one son. They were twins but one of them died.”“Oh my God, man. I’m sorry. I can’t even begin to know what that must feel like.”“It was Dengue. He was strong and fought it but… It’s part of life, I guess.”I have no filter between my brain and my mouth and this phrase just pops into my head and shoots right out. “I guess that we come into this world kicking and screaming and we go out the same way.”I’m horrified for a moment, afraid I’ve offended him and wishing I could reel it back in. But you can’t unring a bell. He looks me in the eye for the first time in minutes and says “Yes. I certainly will.”He was from California, a personal trainer whose muscles seemed to have their own muscles. He rented the room across from me and had a habit of grabbing furniture –tables, chairs and such– and using them as weights, often while having a conversation.He’d do curls with them or lift them over his head and then drop and do push-ups, all while he’s chatting away. I found this funny until I realized that this was one of the reasons he was chiseled and I was a slob. Noted.So we’re hanging out on the terrace one night talking and he’s doing things with a bamboo chair that I’m not willing to discuss in polite company and he opens up, unbidden.“I’m a little scared, man,” he confesses. “I used to be a heroin addict and I can’t find my medicine here. I can’t even find methadone and if I don’t in the next day, I’m going to get really sick.”People don’t share these things where I’m from. But for some reason we do out here. We all do. No one talks about the weather or sports or TV. We get real.We go deep.After chatting longer (as well as drinking a couple of beers and splitting a salted, grilled fish from the stand down the street) it hits me: I remember seeing a sign for a ‘pain clinic’ not far away.We look it up on ‘The Google’, find a photo of the sign and call. They’re open late and if he brings his old prescription bottles in, they’ll set him up. He leaves the next morning for Laos, pills in hand.’m standing by the road at Chiang Mai Gate in–wait for it– Chiang Mai, Thailand. It’s my favorite food market, with fifty stalls or more and as a result, the car traffic is pretty heavy.An older Thai man and I are waiting to cross the street, caught at a pinch point on a sidewalk that’s filled with stalls selling pork and chicken and who knows what. There’s a break in the flow of cars and I gesture for him to go first. He does the same and we get into that whole “no, you go first” thing.The gap is closing quickly and without saying a word, he grabs my hand and raises it in the air. We cross the road hand-in-hand, both of us laughing the entire way.This is the Real ‘Real World’. I stand corrected.I’m Being Stalked!This is a true story. I’ve noticed a disturbing trend that’s developed over the last six months or so — when I wake up in the morning, my room often stinks. It smells of really horrible farts, to be specific. So, after giving it considerable thought and working through all of the angles, I’ve come to the only sensible explanation: I’m being stalked by a Fart Ninja.Now, you’ll have to give me a moment to explain my logic on this but once I’m finished, I’m pretty sure you’ll agree with me.First of all: I only fart for comedic purposes, so it’s obviously not me creating the problem. And when I do, said wind tends to be rose-scented, so I think we can safely scratch me off the suspect list.This has been happening for awhile and it has followed me from Central America to Texas and now to Southeast Asia — someone is stalking me, sneaking into my room as I sleep and stinking up the joint.Now, this has to be a guy — I’m not trying to be a misogynist here but every woman I’ve ever met swears that she never passes gas. This comment is usually followed by a huge honking blast and a giggle.Since it can’t be me and I’ve never managed to catch the perpetrator in the act, I’ve applied the logic of Occam’s Razor (now with four blades and a lubricating strip!) and have come to the only obvious conclusion: I’m the target of a Fart Ninja.I’ve tried everything I can think of to catch him, including sleeping with one increasingly-watery eye open. My elaborate Rube Goldberg trap with a paint can full of sand swinging from a rope hit me right in the balls the first morning. I considered scattering broken glass around the door but then remembered that I get up in the middle of the night to pee.He probably has some Teflon-coated, carbon-fiber yak-leather ninja shoes anyways. The bastard.So for now I suffer and wait and watch.But I will catch you, Fart Ninja. And when I do, we will dance.I can’t sleep. I’ve been in country for nearly a week and the body clock still hasn’t reset. I went from being two hours behind you to fifteen hours ahead. The future is pretty cool and I’m hoping to find you a winning Lotto number. But it’s a bit lonely.This is my last night at a resort that is way beyond my pay scale but which –though it’s far from anything else in the area– has a huge infinity pool that overlooks the sea. It’s 3am, a perfect time to skinny dip, and I float by the edge where the water spills over.It’s an old cliche but I wish you were here.After my swim, I wrap on the robe and sit by the edge of the pool with my legs in the water (it’s the dumbest thing but I’m in love with the cotton robes in these places). There’s a half-finished bottle of cold white wine by my side. I’m not used to having a refrigerator in my room and am nearly giddy about it. The room has glasses but I drink from the bottle.It’s still black out. Fishing boats bob in the sea with lights that wink in and out with the waves — most fisherman here work at night, I’m told. The lights mirror the stars in the sky. I think they do, at least…A harsh halogen lamp burns down on the pool, so it’s tough to see most of them but I’m pretty sure they’re still there. I, of course, piss and moan about this to myself: “Stupid, well-lit fancy resort!”But it’s that lamp that creates the magic. I kick my leg, idly killing time and enjoying the peace and quiet.For once, there are no roosters or dogs, no loud jeepnies, taxis, motorcycles, trikes or buses roaring by and I’m starting to really dig this whole ‘remote’ thing.That kick doesn’t effect the surface of the pool but the wave it creates underneath interacts with the spotlight that I’d just been cursing and spreads these amazing concentric circles of light across the pool floor.At any moment, anywhere in the world, there is beauty. We just have to look for it. Or stumble into it. I play with this for an hour or more.The rings expand, thick at first then thinner and more closely packed. Like the robe, it’s a very simple thing. Like me.I wish you were here.With my feet, I play this pool like a musical instrument. My favorite move is ‘small left, small left, big right’. I’m a video game controller, writ large. The circles merge and converge, bouncing off the edges of the pool, the glowing interference patterns doing their dance.They ripple out, always moving onward, and then fade into nothing.There is a moment where I have the entire pool going, light rolling out like some crazed fever dream and I catch myself thinking I’m on drugs. (The blood test came back and I wasn’t).The sky slowly turns violet, then moves into a deep and rising blue and the lamp loses it’s reach. The big light is coming.I pout. My toy is broken.I don’t know it yet, but the world isn’t done with me. The wine is gone and I’m starting to wonder if I have any chance of getting back to sleep. It doesn’t look good…Then the birds come.They’re small, black swallows about the size of my open hand and they’re here to drink. They don’t land, but merely skim the surface of the pool, taking a sip on each pass. They chirp right before they hit. A prayer? A thanks? A shout of joy? I’ll never know.At least twenty descend at once, surrounding me, and when they touch the water they leave ripples, more circles that mix and spread. And these don’t need light to shine — they spill out across the surface of the pool. The birds spin and turn and twist in an amazing aerobatic dance, returning again and again to drink their fill, playing the pool far better than I ever could.This goes on for five minutes and I sit stock-still, afraid to move and ruin the Moment. I’m a statue. Hypnotized. Stunned.God, I wish you were here.They fly off, one by one. The last flies right at me, skimming, and drinks just a foot from my knees with a gentle splash. It shoots straight up, mere inches from my face. I feel and hear the flutter of its wings.It chirps as it passes. A blessing.And then I finally get it: you were here all along.