Out of my adventures through South East Asia, Bali was probably one of the most special and magical places I went to.  Prior to heading there, the truth is I was worried that it’d be too touristy but I was surprised to find that it wasn’t overcrowded and there was a really nice balance between heading into town and being connected to nature.  Getting a private driver was also probably one of the best decisions we made as it gave us an opportunity to go off-the-beaten-path a little as well and see Bali at our own pace with the comfort of a guide and vehicle.With this simple 5 day Bali itinerary I hope you’ll be able to have as much of a blast as I did that shows you exactly what to do on this paradise island of Indonesia.I totally wished we spent more time in Bali but for 5 days I thought this itinerary was a great introduction to island that surely gave me a lasting impression.  The way I structured was I first hired a local driver to take around the island for 2 days.  This was probably the best way to explore a lot of key sights of the island without being too rushed or stressed.Our driver, Putu, was fantastic in create a custom itinerary based on my research and talking to an Indonesian friend.  We were able to go at our own pace with Putu and got to make a lot of unexpected stops along the way.  I’m not sure if we would’ve seen as much as we did without him.  Learn about my experiences with Putu and how he was able to tailor an awesome 2 days.After two days of sightseeing, I slotted a rest day at the resort which we fully took advantage of.  On day 4 we didn’t have anything concrete planned but thought a day exploring the main city area of Kuta would be nice.  We got a super awesome and cheap massage with Cozy which topped it all off.For the last day, we mixed a little snorkelling with Jimbaran to see the local fish market which was a fun experience.This trip ended up being an excellent balance of exploring, adventure, activities, cheap eats, luxury, and beaching.5 DAYS IN BALI ITINERARY BREAKDOWNClick the links on the dates to take you to the associated blog entries.  Scroll left and right to see more columns.  If you’re looking to get something you can download and work with, I encourage you to download the itinerary when you scroll below the table.WHAT WE MISSEDThere were a few things that I couldn’t fit into the itinerary and would love to do next time around.  If you’re planning a Bali trip, definitely consider these places:Uluwatu for sunset – There are so many stunning places to watch the sunset but Uluwatu was one that we just didn’t have time to fit in.Surfing – Not all places are beginner friendly but if there’s a place to try, take a lesson a try it!Diving – My trip wasn’t really a surfing/diving type of trip but there are a ton of amazing places for this.  Definitely check out the North West part of Bali for good dive sites.Hiking – Mount Batur would’ve been incredible to do.  They offer many early morning hikes up so you can watch the sunrise from the top!North Bali – Spending more time in the north of the island which is less trafficked by tourists.  Would totally love to rent a place out there and just kick back.Hidden temples – There were some other smaller temples that would’ve been cool to check out…but you know you can only do so many temples on a trip.THINGS TO KNOW BEFORE YOU GO TO BALIThese are tips and tricks I learned during our 5 days in Bali.  There are plenty of things that other guides and bloggers don’t talk about so here are all the things I wish I knew before going.Currency Exchange in IndonesiaWhen changing money make sure you double check all the bills even after they count it in front of you.  Bring USD.  The rates for CAD are always bad.Another quick note about currency exchange.  Currency changers are VERY specific about what series bills $50?s and $100?s are.  They only accept bills that are 2006 and higher.  Chantelle had a few $100?s that she just couldn’t exchange because they were before that time.  The reason for this is that there are a lot of counterfeit bills from the older era so to be safe these places don’t take it at all.Coming in May seems to be an awesome time to come because it is low-season and the local kids are still in school and it’s no longer wet season.  It was great not having to deal with hoards of tourists everywhere we went.Stamps are ACTUALLY called “perango” and not “meterai”.  International postcards cost 10,000 IDR.Airport fees in IndonesiaMake sure you have IDR stashed away for the departure fees.  35,000 for domestic and 150,000 for international departures.  They will not take anything but IDR.When going through customs in Indonesia make sure you pay for your Visa on Arrival FIRST (make sure you have the exact amount in USD) and then go to the customs guy.Get a private driver to take you around Bali.I highly recommend Putu Arnawa.  He was one of the reasons why our trip was so awesome.   You can find out more on my experiences with him here.Despite the Conrad being a pretty awesome hotel, the Nusa Dua/Tengoban Benoa area is just too far from the main attractions on the island.  Ubud is a good base for all the country side/temple sights and sad to say Kuta/Legian/Seminyak are good bases for the southern part of Bali.  Travelling from our area always added about 1.5 hours each way because of insane chaotic traffic and this one main round-about clog right by the airport.Highly recommended to check out some off-the-beaten path local activities like the semi-annual celebrations or cock fights – talk to your driverNever pay for asking price at local markets.  Negotiate by starting at 40% and going up from there.Tanah Lot and Uluwatu are great for sunsetsMost local restaurants have free shuttles that will take you from your hotel to the restaurant so check first before grabbing a cab.Bumbu Bali is great if you’re in the Nusa Dua area.  The set menus are good for first timers but I will have to say that the satay is their best item.Cozy 1 or 2 is definitely recommended.  I couldn’t believe that their prices were actually cheaper than in China.  Very professional and nicely furnished facilities.Kuta looks like it’d be great for surfing as anyone wanting to go to Bali probably already knows.  The surf isn’t too intimidating and is close to the beach.  However it is very crowded and when we went during sunset filled with hawkers, tourists and local kids.Jimbaran is a cool area if you have the time.  You can combine this with Uluwatu for sunset if you’d like.  Lia Caf? was recommended to us but we ended up at JBS instead so don’t get conned by “free shuttles”.Spanning many modern and ancient civilizations, picturesque beaches, dazzling architecture, and mouthwatering food galore, there’s so much to be excited about when it comes to Eastern Mediterranean cruises. The grandeur of this region of the Mediterranean Sea is unmistakable as each port brings more of your imagination to life whether it’s through stunning landscapes, delightful cuisines, the calm crashing of waves, or iconic remnants of empires.  There’s much to explore and as one of many European cruise options available to you, let’s count down all the reasons why need to add it to your bucket list.1. HOW CAN YOU SAY NO TO THE GREEK ISLES?Whether you’re talking about popular islands like Santorini, Mykonos, Rhodes or some of the smaller ones such as Paros, Naxos, or Kos, a cruise to the Mediterranean just wouldn’t be complete without at least one stop here.  The whitewashed villages with iconic splashes of blue, sandy beaches, volcanic calderas, tiny cobblestone alleyways, and the freshest seafood will make you fall in love with this place ten times over.2.  EXPLORE EMPIRESAs a big history nut myself, one of the biggest attractions about the Mediterranean is how well balanced it is between sun and beach with the historic treasures that can be found here what can be literally said to be the cradle of civilizations.  With the Romans, Greeks, Persian, Turkish, and Byzantine empires, to name a few, be prepared to be immersed in a time period long past.Whether you’re walking through the pillars of the Parthenon, the labyrinth of streets of Old Town in Rhodes, staring at awe of the Temple of Artemis near Ephesus, or soaking in the eclectic mix of all the empires that conquered through Chania in Crete, there’s an endless amount of art, culture, and lost treasures to discover.3. THE SEAFOODOn board your cruise, you’ll have have a bounty of restaurants to try but perhaps even better is the opportunity to have a meal on one of the many port days that you will have.  The Mediterranean is bountiful for its seafood and it’s one of the best parts about travelling through this region.I highly recommend trying the fish and octopus in various cooking styles while here and also don’t be afraid to try other local dishes.  Your best bet is to do some research ahead of time by looking at lists such as these top restaurants in Mykonos. 4. GET TO VISIT ISRAELOne of the big benefits of doing the Eastern Mediterranean cruise versus a Western Mediterranean cruise is that you’ll have the opportunity to spend time in Israel through the ports of Ashdod and Haifa.In Ashdod, you have direct access to one of the oldest cities in the world, Jerusalem.  Gaze at the Western Wall, watch the sun shimmer of of the Dom of the Rock, and take a peek inside the al-Aqsa Mosque.  Soak in the atmosphere by wandering through the Old City, shopping in artisan markets, and sample Middle Eastern cuisine.Haifa is a spectacular city that rises from the terraced hillsides of this northern city.  If there’s interest, head over to Galilee which is where you get a sense of Christ’s youth and where Jesus was baptized.  There’s also the grotto in Nazareth where Archangel Gabriel appeared to the Virgin Mary.  From here you’re also treated to quite the panoramic view of the Sea of Galilee.5. CHOOSE YOUR OWN ADVENTUREOne of the great things about cruising is that it really is up to you what you want to do.  If you just feel like staying on the boat and relaxing, you can do that.  If you want to plan your own day trip once the boat docks or pick one of the cruise’s own excursions, you can decide.  You can do something that’s adventurous and more physically intense or you can just lay back and find the closest beach to camp out at for the day.Depending on your interests and how you feel as you go along in your cruise, it’s all up to you and that’s one of the beauties of these vacations.Make sure to read Telegraph’s guide on planning an Eastern Mediterranean cruise.6. CREATURE COMFORTS AND CRUISE LUXURIESYour days can be quite packed as you go from new destination to another during the cruise.  However, unlike conventional travel where you have to drag your luggage around and check-in to a new accommodation when you move to a new place, all you have to do in a cruise is head back to the port and you’re back on familiar grounds.I know the feeling as a traveller.  When you’re preparing for your upcoming trip and packing your suitcase or backpack, there’s so much excitement around what to bring, but as you get closer to figuring out all the clothes you want to bring, you start laying them out on your bed and you’re stumped.Questions start swirling in your head.  As a guy, what should you pack?  Is it too much?  Are you packing too little? I know how the story goes because we’ve gone through it all.  FOMO ultimately kicks in and you almost always end up packing too much.  I’m here to help guide you through my techniques for packing smart and efficiently as a guy traveller.RULE #1: PACK LIGHTEasier said than done right?  I’ve travelled enough to know that you ALWAYS regret bringing too much for a trip.  Can you think of a time when you came back from being on the road and thought to yourself “I’m so happy I’ve had to lug around this giant suitcase around”.At the end of the day, what will make you unhappy and frustrated when travelling is when you have to drag your 25 kg bag from place to place and you’re tired, the weather is sweltering, and the ground is unbelievably uneven or cobbled.  It’s in those moments that you regret bringing so much. It’s not an easy transition but like how flight attendants share their technique for packing light, I’ve found that travelling with only a carry-on or a 40-50L backpack makes life so much easier.  You become that much more nimble and flexible when you travel light.  It means you can tackle stairs and cobbled streets that much more easily and public transit becomes more viable.RULE #2:  PACK IN LAYERSSo how exactly do you pack light?  Well a lot of it comes down to versatility.  This means that you don’t have to have an outfit for every single situation or activity you do.  I do this by bringing layers on the trip.This works well because it means that you change your bottom/base layer everyday but the other layers that you mix and match on top don’t necessarily need to be washed every day.  That’s why I can get away with having just one hoodie, fleece, and of course jacket when I travel.  Layers are awesome because it gives you flexibility as well so if it’s hot, you only need your base layer but as the days get cooler or warmer, you adjust by adding on or subtracting layers.One of my favourite base layers are these tank tops by YPRES.  This is part of a men’s clothing line that mix the functionality of a traditional tank with style and design.  They use quality garments and are super comfortable.RULE #3:  ROLL YOUR CLOTHESIf you’re looking for the most effective way to pack clothes into a small space, you need to learn how to roll your clothes.  It’s honestly a big reason why I can cram in so many t-shirts into my carry-on sized suitcase with the help of an organizer. I roll everything from shorts, pants, t-shirts, buttoned-shirts, underwear, you name it!RULE #4:  DON’T PACK WHAT YOU’LL ALREADY HAVE AT YOUR DESTINATIONYou don’t have to bring everything and the kitchen sink with you because most likely you’re going to a place that has a lot of what you need already.  So why double up on things when it’s already waiting for you there. The best example of this are toiletries such as body wash, shampoo, and conditioner.  If you’re staying at a hotel, they will always have these waiting for you.  Maybe I’m just not that picky about that stuff but I am totally okay to use those for a few days rather than bring my own.  The same goes for towels.RULE #5:  HAND WASH YOUR CLOTHES ALONG THE WAYThe reason why I’m able to pack a lot less socks and underwear and to some extent shirts and pants is because I will always hand wash my clothes throughout the trip.  It isn’t a glamorous job but that helps you save a ton of space. If you’ve never hand washed your clothes at a hotel before, it’s actually quite easy.  For me, the key is to do it as you travel so you never have to wash a big batch in one night.  Also factor in how many nights you have at one location because if your clothes don’t dry in one night, you want to try to avoid travelling with damp clothes in your bag. The other key to success for hand washing is to pack dry-fit or quick-dry type of synthetic clothing.  This material dries insanely fast especially if you properly wring it out in a towel before hanging.RULE #6:  USE ORGANIZERS My inner neat freak is on display here but I just love having different bags, pockets, and zipper organizers to keep my bag as orderly as possible.  Some organizers are great to keep your clothes nice and compressed and others are just there to keep your stuff together so you know how to find them when you need them. It provides sanity to the chaos because the last thing you need when you’re travelling is to try to figure out where your plug adapter might’ve filtered through your stuff in transit. Organizers keep things tight, tidy, and well…organized!So that’s my take on how I travel so light and pack efficiently.  I’d love to hear from you though.  Everyone has different tips and tricks and I totally get that everyone travels differently so TELL ME how I can be better about travelling smarter by dropping a comment below.First off, thank you for visiting Going Awesome Places.  You know what the crazy thing is?  5 years ago, I never would have imagined that I’d be doing this travel blogging thing full time but here I am.My goal from day one has been to write honestly and genuinely to inspire others to travel. Through inspiration, I want to give my readers the tools and guidance to have similar, if not better, experiences of their own. The only way I know how to do that is to share stories, educate, and leave no detail behind.Out of school, I pursued a career in consulting. I was pretty happy with my job, but at the same time, I realized my passion for it had waned and what I was learning was starting to taper off. On top of that, the living-out-of-my-suitcase life was really wearing me out. Fast forward 4 years to December 2011. I had started to evaluate what I wanted to do, and I began to draw out an exit-strategy. A lot of that involved timing when to leave my company, the start of planning my trip to Asia, and devising the best way to use my remaining vacation days.Come April 2012, I had everything figured out and handed in my 2 weeks resignation. April 13, 2012 was my last day and what a relief it was! The only thing holding me back from leaving immediately was my friend’s upcoming wedding in May. I decided to use this time to prep, pack and see old friends.One of those meetings led to the question of whether I was going to be blogging about my experiences while I was away.  The idea intrigued me but the truth is I had never thought about it before then.  I went home that night and quickly did some research before ultimately purchasing this domain, getting WordPress set up, and creating my first blog post.  Keep in mind that this was with only 3 days left at home.  The wedding happened and then I was out of Toronto by May 21.For the next 3 months I roamed around Asia and was lucky enough to have friends travel with me for segments of it.  I had no idea what I was doing but I blogged about my experiences day to day.  I treated it kind of like a diary and it was really all about letting my friends and family know what I was up to.It was an adventure of a lifetime and truly put a perspective on the important things in life.  It was something that profoundly changed my core and gave me a renewed sense of direction.When I eventually came back at the end of August, I reviewed the blog and how it was doing.  To my surprise, I started seeing traffic come in from places I wasn’t expecting.  This is when the lightbulb clicked inside and I realized that may there was more to all of this than a glorified online diary.