Grizzly Bear Watching at Knight Inlet, British Columbia“Do you have any food on you? Chocolate, chewing gum, sweets? Please make sure you don’t have anything edible; bears have a very strong sense of smell.” We looked at each other in slight trepidation and patted our pockets to make sure we weren’t carrying something that might attract a hungry bear. The canopied, flat-bottomed boat inched slowly away from Knight Inlet Lodge and out across the narrow inlet. The guide scanned the opposite shoreline. Suddenly he whispered, “There’s one over there to our left. I’m going to take the boat a bit nearer. Keep very quiet and try not to make any sudden moves.” He then silently slipped over the back of the boat and gently pushed it closer to land. With mounting excitement, we peered along the shore, unable to distinguish between moss-covered rocks and what might be a bear. Then we saw it against the fir trees …… a young male, maybe 3 years old, quite thin, with capucchino-coloured fur, making his way slowly through the sedge, seemingly unbothered by the boat only 50 metres away. He looked up as we started taking photos but was clearly used to curious humans and carried on eating. With a big furry paw, he turned over a heavy rock covered in moss and seaweed, searching for tasty morsels hidden underneath.Crunch-crunch went his strong jaws as he munched on fresh mussels.  Water slooped against the side of the boat and the occasional cry of duck echoed through the valley, but otherwise the only sounds were the bear eating and shutters clicking as we tried to capture this moving sight.Half an hour passed by quickly; it was almost hypnotic to watch this totally wild animal in its natural habitat going about its vital task of building up body mass after its winter hibernation, totally unbothered by the nearby watchers. His powerful shoulders rippled everytime he moved a stone or stood up on a log to get a good look around. Round ears twitched at any noise and his shiny black nose sniffed the air regularly but he was clearly unafraid. It was such a treat to be so close to one of this planet’s mightiest animals. Eventually the guide pushed our boat away, got back in and we went further round the cove to see if any other bears were about. They weren’t, but for a first day this sighting was more than enough.My bear watching adventure had started earlier that morning in Campbell River, a small town on Victoria Island in British Columbia. We had left from a tiny airport aboard a seaplane, or ‘floatplane; as they are called in Canada. It set off at a sedate pace, sailing past shiny yachts and old boats, scattering swans with gay abandon. Trundling along the water, the plane had slowly gathered speed until it inched its way up into the sky. It soared above tree-clad mountains, over finger-like fjords and sun-reflected water, its engine rumbling loudly. The mountains got higher and a narrow river snaked its way though a grassy meadow.Watch this short video of our wonderful flight to Knight Inlet hereOur destination appeared below; a collection of blue-roofed buildings perched on the edge of dark green water. The little plane circled slowly down and came to a gentle landing on the calm water.We had arrived at Knight Inlet Bear Lodge, our floating home for the next three days. Eager hands helped us off the plane and the Lodge Manager Brian Collen explained how the timetable worked. We had to make careful note of a giant whiteboard which showed what activities we would take part in and with whom we’d be adventuring. After off-loading luggage in my cosy wooden cabin, we were shown the Changing Room with its vast array of bright red waterproof suits, wellies, binoculars and other equipment vital for an intrepid bear watcher. We had great fun helping each other into our Michelin-man suits, taking photos to capture our sartorial elegance. Our first activity was a scenic cruise in a high-speed boat ride from Glendale Cove out into Knight Inlet. Waterfalls thundered down craggy rocks, bald eagles kept watch from enormous nests, ancient glaciers loomed above deep turquoise waters. A lone whale came close and was gone in the blink of an eye. Myriad ducks dipped and dove in the wake of the boat and the sun glimmered through steely clouds, sending flashes of brilliance all around. So many shades of green and silver …10 Very Compelling Reasons to take an Adult Gap YearDo you think a Gap Year is just for kids? Do you want to escape your humdrum job and do something worthwhile? Do you need encouragement to make a change? The ‘Adult Gap Year’ is becoming increasingly popular. In the latest World Travel Blogger article, Caroline Revell, of Original Volunteers, shares some great reasons to take time out and make a difference.10 reasons to take an Adult Gap YearVolunteering and travelling is often marketed at the twenty-somethings finding themselves in the world. This is no longer true. More mature volunteers are taking the leap and planning an ‘Adult Gap Year’. Here are 10 really good reasons you should go for it! 1.  Meet New PeopleYou don’t need someone to set off with. Solo Travel is a great way to go. You will find like-minded people, all keen to meet others to enjoy their experience with. It is likely you will meet someone and plan a second trip with! You’ll know you already get on well and are suitable travelling companions.2.  Use Your Home As IncomeStudents, the typical gappers are known for being poor. It makes sense taking a gap year when you’re older, naturally, you will have more money to do more stuff! Travelling without financial reins is liberating. For mortgage-free travellers heading to low-cost destinations, rental income could cover all your monthly travel expenses and more.3.  You Have A Lot To OfferWe think we know everything in our teens, how wrong we were. You can be more appreciative of things and understand other people more when you have lived a bit, whether you are using your skill to volunteer abroad in an underdeveloped country or just offering words of wisdom to others.4.  Take a Deserved BreakWanting to escape the 9-5 to travel doesn’t mean you have to change your job. People usually associate taking a gap year with a career change. Howeveer, many businesses offer long-term sabbaticals for people to go travelling, so have a chat with your HR department or career adviser.5.  Change CareerRealising you’re in the wrong career is daunting, but remember – you’re not imprisoned, no one is forcing you to continue the career path you are on. Volunteering can be a great way to try out different things and get a better sense of what career you want when you return home. Affordable volunteering programmes can also make your gap year cheaper.6.  Learn A New LanguageLanguage classes and online tools are ‘two a penny’ but can still take up valuable time before you depart. There is no easier way to learn a new language than throwing yourself in the deep end, surrounded by locals. By speaking with locals you will learn the everyday language needed, rather than stuffy grammar and out of date phrases. You don’t want to arrive in Morocco to find you learnt the wrong type of Arabic!7.  Get To Know YourselfStripping away daily distractions at work and home gives you time to get to know yourself on a more personal level. Long journeys with strangers can teach us a lot about ourselves. You will discover your strengths and weaknesses, maybe you’re better in a crisis and more helpful to others than you realised.8.  Experience a Different CultureSeek out opportunities to spend time with local people in a relaxed, informal way. You will learn far more about the culture than from large organised tours. A great way to do this is via personal tour guides, you may a bit extra but you will have the freedom to discuss all aspects of the country, its people and practise the language.9.  Time to ReflectVisiting underdeveloped countries can put the value of money and material possessions into perspective. It is too easy to slip into the mentality of wanting the perfect life; the perfect house, garden and constantly working hard to live the life you think you should be living. An adult gap year gives you time to reflect on what’s really important in your life.10. Tick off your Bucket ListWaiting for the perfect time to go travelling is pointless as it will never come! There is no right or wrong time to take an adult gap year. You just need to pluck up the courage and go. Go with your gut instinct and follow where you are feeling you are being drawn towards. Falling in love with new places is a heartwarming feeling.So what exactly is Mind, Body, Spirit Travel?Sunset at Sirindhorn Wararam Phu Prao Temple  – NE ThailandMind, Body, Spirit Travel? Sounds a bit fancy-schmancy doesn’t it? Do you mean you go all over the place namastaying, sitting in the lotus position and eating mung beans? Well, no, it most definitely doesn’t. Though I’m more than happy to namaste with anyone, I have never been able to sit in the lotus position, even in my youth when I was much more flexible than now. And as far as I know, a mung bean has never passed my lips, but, as James Bond says, never say never. Of course, I love lying on a hammock in the sun on a Caribbean island, but mind, body, spirit travel means more to me …Since I first started The Quirky Traveller blog 10 years ago, I have been asked, ‘What does Quirky Travel mean?‘ I struggled with that question for quite a long time, before realising it simply meant the kind of travel I like. It’s travelling with your eyes wide open, using all your senses to experience your surroundings in an inspiring, unique way. It means taking your time to explore what’s around you, enjoying the moment and appreciating things fully. It’s about the people, culture, heritage, customs, sights, sounds and feelings that a place evokes. (Read more about it here What is Quirky Travel?) And of course, that really is Mind, Body, Spirit Travel.Mind Body Spirit TravelI experienced many different things that fed my soul on a recent visit to Thailand. Read 7 Soulful things to do in North East Thailand. (It is also the trip which helped me decide not to go on any more big Media Trips. Too many people, too much focus on Instagram and not enough time to enjoy the tranquility and beauty of the places we visited.)As I’ve got older, I’ve also realised that what’s most important to me is how a place makes me FEEL, rather than what I DO there. Some places have loads to see but leave me feeling totally unmoved. A good example of that is Los Angeles, a place I stayed many years ago with an American boyfriend. We spent four days exploring the city, looking at the enormous homes of the rich and oh, so very famous, doing the Hollywood Walk of Fame, window-shopping in Beverley Hills and gawping at muscle-bound hunks on Venice BeachMural at Venice BeachI HATED it. It seemed the epitome of celebrity consumerism, feeling heartless and shallow, replete with ‘the beautiful people’ trying to ignore the street sleepers and wannabees. The weird thing was, that so many people there talked about ‘soul’ and ‘finding themselves’ and yet it somehow seemed as if they were paying lip-service. I couldn’t wait to leave and explore more of California which, for the most part, I really enjoyed.On the other hand, I absolutely LOVE Vancouver, an equally built-up city, which has somehow managed not only to retain its soul but seemingly continues to develop with heart.Of course, it too has its street sleepers and wannabees, but it has gloriously beautiful skyscrapers, water everywhere, a lovely big park, pavements meant for walking, float planes zooming all over the place, great food and drink plus VERY friendly people. Read 24 Hours in Vancouver to find out more about this amazing city in British Columbia.Broad Generalisation Warning: Canadians seem to really appreciatete the beauty of their country and do their best to enhance it rather than bulldozer over it … That’s a very personal opinion.I have visited Canada four times and each time discovered new things to delight mind, body and spirit. Highlights from these trips include getting up close to grizzly bears at Knight Inlet, a memorable international foodie tour in Montreal, cocktail hour at the Chateau Frontenac in Quebec City, celebrating Canada’s 150th birthday in Ottawa, discovering First Nation history in Victoria’s Royal British Columbia Museum and our unforgettable road trip from Vancouver to Calgary through the Rockies.Many, many other places and experiences have given me that special feeling that satisfies mind, body or spirit – and sometimes all three. They include swimming with sea lions in the Galapagos Islands, admiring Morecambe Bay from the medieval ruins of St Patrick’s Chapel at Heysham, Lancashire, the Taj Mahal at dawn, eating the perfect spaghetti carbonara in Rome, relaxing meditating with horses in the Lake District, just about anything in Greece, my soul country, feeding flamingos in the Caribbean, visiting my brother in Menorca and my absolute favourite mind, body, spirit travel experience of all time, sitting with gorillas in Rwanda.I hope this has given you a clearer idea of what travel in mind, body and spirit means to me. And now I’m off to feed my soul on some lemon meringue pie, though it’s never as good as the ones my Mum used to make …2.  Eating cherries on the road We buy a kilo of big, fat, sweet and oh so very juicy cherries from one of the farm shops along the Okanagan Valley. It’s late spring and the whole area is bursting with fresh fruit and vegetables in this very fertile part of southern Canada. We’ve been told to get the cherries as it’s the best crop for years. We’re on our way to the Rockies but have a long way to go and these deep red globes of delicious goodness keep us going all the way to Revelstoke. Fortunately there is a market and we can stock up again; luckily they last until our first glimpse of the Rockies.3.  The Pipe Mountain Coaster, Revelstoke‘Keep off the brake. Don’t be a chicken!’ The words of the bearded Canadian guy in the queue, resound in my ears as I zoom down the sheer drop VERY fast. I desperately want to pull brake, but two things stop me.I’m worried I’m going so fast I’ll tip outI don’t want to be a chicken.I’m on the Pipe Mountain Coaster in Revelstoke, British Columbia. Riding up in the gondola, the Monashee Mountains and Columbia River spread beneath us. Whizzing down the mountain, I’ve no time to look at the view. Fir trees flick past as the little cart twists, turns and at one point appears to shoot off the edge, accelerating past a ski run on its way down 1.4km of track at up to 26mph. All too soon, I’m at the end, exhilarated and wanting to do again – me no chicken!4  BBQ at Dutch Lake Resort, ClearwaterThe sound of wood chopping has stopped and there’s smoke wafting in through the door of the RV. Ali’s got the BBQ going and I’ve finished preparing the salad and opened a couple of beers. Beef burgers from a local butcher sizzle merrily on the metal rack we’ve just bought from Dutch Lake Resort shop. A couple of guys from the RV next door come over to chat whilst we wait for the burgers to cook. The sun’s setting over the lily-strewn lake and frogs start croaking in the shallows. The tantalizing smell of onions and burgers get the taste buds going. Love eating outdoors in Canada …5.  The Rockies from the top of Whistler MountainAt last I’m here, on top of Whistler Mountain gazing out across the most famous mountains in North America. Their pointed tops ripple across the horizon, perfectly mountainy. Snow glitters in the late afternoon light and a ribbon of river ripples through the wooded valley. A lake of startling blue water glistens and winks upwards. Quirky Jasper town curves alongside the railway track and birds glide on the chilly thermals. Neither words nor photos can do justice to this awesome sight.6. Relaxing by Medicine LakeThe calm waters ripple briefly as a duck floats serenely past. At the end of the lake tower the jaggy peaks of the Rockies, reflected in shimmering symmetry. I drink in the awe-inspiring natural beauty of Medicine Lake in the heart of Jasper National Park, in Alberta. Delicate white and yellow wild flowers bend their dainty heads in the gentle breeze and overhead a large bird wheels its way across the cloud-flecked sky; too far away to see if it’s a bald eagle. A stone lands with a resounding splash to my left and two children giggle; the spell is broken and it’s time to move on and explore more …7.  Driving the RV along the Icefields ParkwayAfter hundreds of miles we are finally driving along one of the world’s most spectacular roads, the Icefields Parkway, from Jasper to Banff. Every twist and turn reveals more mountains until we feel completely surrounded. We are running parallel to the Continental Divide from Jasper National Park to Banff National Park stopping off at the Athabasca Falls, Sunwapta Pass, Stutfield and Athabasca Glaciers, Peyto Lake, Wildfowl Lake and Lake Louise.  We see mountain goats, many birds, wild flowers and tourists. It could take us a few hours; it actually takes us all day, every mile a miracle of natural wonder and delight …8.  The unbelievable blue of Peyto Lake